EspAfrika COO and CTIJF festival director Billy Domingo remarked: “This year we set out to create a strong programme in which every artist is a star. Rooted and inspired in jazz legacy with known favourites, but also with the excitement of discovering new material and artists that will blow fans away with their musical creativity."“Together with our customary panel of music experts, I believe we have melded a cracking line-up that will appeal to exacting Festinos who join us every year to celebrate, but also to a newer and younger audience who are uncovering the delights of their own musical journeys through the CTIJF.”Local musicians to take the stageThe Mi Casa trio will return with soulful urban house grooves from their latest soul jazz release. The Feya Faku Spirit Unit sees the trumpet legend making more space for duets and solo performances. Saxman Sisonke Xonti is set to impress with thoughtful lyricism drawn from the nuances of seminal reedmen like Ezra Ngcukana.Billy Monama: GrazRoots Project will revisit local classics in a celebration of mbaqanga and maskandi; Belhar’s Claire Phillips (SA) is set to deliver a forceful repertoire of funk, R&B and fusion; espYoungLegend 2018 winner Jarrad Ricketts (SA) will up the game with a dynamic pop showcase; Keenan Ahrends Quintet (SA) places the guitarist centre with deeply toned ballads, local jazz and grungy rock.Amanda Black’s will show why she’s been dubbed ‘the new queen of ballads’; Nicky Schrire will show off her vocal work; veteran entertainer Alistair Izobell is guaranteed to stir up some dust as he unpacks a classic Cape party.The Sekunjalo Edujazz Band will take to the main festival stage. The Soil will dazzle with a repertoire of township jazz, hip-hop and Afro-pop; Shane Cooper’s latest and much-anticipated quintet MABUTA will also perform. In addition, Card On Spokes will also be present while Louis Moholo-Moholo will present 5 Blokes 1 Doll.Artists from abroad Dedicated fans will be able to take in Corinne Bailey Rae’s meditative indie rock and folky neo-soul tracks. Mulatu Astatke (Ethiopia) will bring his unique blend of traditional Ethiopian music, Western jazz and Latin rhythms.Vijay Iyer Sextet (USA) will showcase his piano work, while Seu Jorge will present the Life Aquatic/A Tribute to David Bowie (Brazil). Jordan Rakei’s (NZ) soulful, jazzy hip-hop palette will also make its way to Cape Town.The Blinky Bill & Sibot’s Afrofunk Spaceship (SA/Kenya) collab promises a playful mishmash of jet-fuelled electronica. Trombone Shorty (USA), The Louiz Banks Quartet (India), Miles Mosley (USA), trumpeter Nicholas Payton: Afro-Caribbean Mixtape (USA) will also showcase their respective specialities.The Inner Dimensions Collective (SA/Swiss) will showcase chordal deconstruction reminiscent of early South African jazz styles from the Sophiatown era. Robert Glasper, Terrace Martin, Christian Scott Atunde Adjua, Derrick Hodge, and Taylor McFerrin will bring their R+R=NOW (USA) collaboration to the Mother City.Summing up what is expected, City of Cape Town executive mayor Patricia De Lille said: “For nearly two decades, the City of Cape Town has been a proud host of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival which brings the world’s very best in jazz and other popular music genres to our shores. The city is a proud supporter of this event as it has added immense value to our efforts to become the events capital of Africa. Indeed, we hold the title proudly but we are grateful for the efforts of organisers of the spectacular jazz festival, which never fails to impress with a stellar and dynamic line up each year."Tickets are available at Computicket outlets.