CNN Travel will be led by executive editor Brekke Fletcher, who joined the network from the Wall Street Journal last September. With her growing global team and a network of more than 800 travel contributors and insiders around the globe, CNN Travel will be the leading digital destination for the globally curious traveller. Using every available digital story-telling tool, from articles to galleries, short-form digital video, and animations, maps, audio, and illustration, CNN Travel will provide unrivaled, authoritative content presented with visual sophistication and artistry. CNN Travel's multiplatform, multimedia approach will include text, video, interactives and social-first storytelling, as well as a newsletter, events, and podcasts. Fresh and expanded technology coverage This launch follows the recent announcement of CNN Tech, as CNN develops its technology coverage in line with the investment it has put into CNN Politics, CNNMoney and CNN Style in recent years to propel those destinations as leaders in their sectors. In May, CNN Tech unveiled a new look and fresh editorial approach to equip today&#x2019;s curious consumers with the tools to survive in the ever-evolving world. The site - led by executive editor Sam Grobart and a growing global team - looks beyond the business of technology to focus on innovation itself, exploring the impact of tech and startup hubs around the world &#x2013; from Silicon Valley to Berlin to Bengaluru &#x2013; and the role of science and technology in society. CNN Tech is also expanding onto linear with the airing of Senior Correspondent Laurie Segall&#x2019;s ground-breaking series Mostly Human. First available on CNN&#x2019;s OTT platform CNNgo, the series, which looks at our increasingly complicated relationship with technology is now airing on CNN International, reaching over 350 million households globally. CNN&#x2019;s strategy around premium content business has been a huge success amongst audiences. CNN Digital Worldwide saw 200m multiplatform unique visitors in May 2017, in addition to 448 million video starts across platforms.(Adobe Reports & Analytics; uniques include CNN.com, CNNi.com and apps, video includes CNN.com, CNNi.com, apps and CNNMoney) We are working closely with clients to draw on this powerful mix of content, commercial solutions and data targeting across multiple platforms to establish partnerships that deliver meaningful results and a halo effect to our partners. A powerful mix of content, commercial solutions and data targeting From an advertiser perspective, CNN International Commercial has attracted a host of luxury clients such as Cartier, RADO and Bulgari since the launch of CNN Style on digital in 2015 and then on TV a year later. On CNNMoney, international partners since the site&#x2019;s expansion in February 2016 include Capgemini, Brand South Africa, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, India, and Dubai Commerce and Tourism. &#x201c;The expansion of CNN Travel and CNN Tech alongside our other premium businesses is a core part of CNN&#x2019;s strategy to deepen our connection with existing audiences, attract new demographics and target consumers with broader interests,&#x201d; said Rani Raad, president, CNN International Commercial. &#x201c;These premium environments also present greater opportunities for brands to connect with CNN&#x2019;s audiences through sponsorship and branded content partnerships. We are working closely with clients to draw on this powerful mix of content, commercial solutions and data targeting across multiple platforms to establish partnerships that deliver meaningful results and a halo effect to our partners.&#x201d; &#x201c;In order to fuel our core mission, we are creating content and environments that match our journalistic integrity but go beyond breaking news,&#x201d; says Ed O&#x2019;Keefe, senior vice president of Premium Digital Content. "This is the first step in an ongoing journey. CNN is as committed to CNN Tech and CNN Travel as we were about CNN Politics beginning in 2014. We have aggressive plans in the months to come to hire the top talent, iterate on our site, and produce some of the most original, boundary-pushing video in the industry. Stay tuned.&#x201d;