How does one reinvent the confectionary category and inject relevance into an offering targeted directly at Gen Z? Cadbury P.S. is a South African chocolate bar that has graced our shelves for many years. Being the first chocolate to offer a &#x2018;messaging&#x2019; theme, P.S. secured a unique space within the confectionary market. But the packaging and messaging had lost its relevance with consumers and needed to be reworked and reinvented. Gen Z are digital natives &#x2013; defined by social media and their smart devices. They crave new and exciting designs that are visually driven, and are bored of traditional executions. The design of the new P.S. had to deliver upon the above creative criteria and also ensure that the pack lived far beyond the taste buds - in the realm of sharing and social media. Just Design worked with the Cadbury team at Mondelez to produce a visually exciting (and vastly different) pack whose messages could be shared virally on popular platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. Each bar has one of 10 messages, that when scanned, deliver video messages, which can then be shared with friends on social platforms. Messaging appropriate to this internet generation. P.S. certainly looks age appropriate &#x2013; with its bold metallic vs non-metallic wrapper, and logo that incorporates a Wi-Fi connectivity icon. But in an age where written messages and posted letters have taken the form of emojis and acronyms &#x2013; the new P.S. fits right in and looks set to stay. About Just Design For over fifteen years, Just Design has proven time and again that good thinking leads to great creative. With a national footprint and accounts across Africa, Middle East and Europe, they are the strategic design partners for many blue-chip clients and global brands, and are one of the top packaging design agencies in South Africa. About PS P.S. bars are available in Caramilk (46g and 23g) and Milk Chocolate (46g) variants in all major retail outlets. Look out for the new PS in stores now! Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CadburyPS/ Twitter: #SayItWithPS