Apex award. Image supplied.The day will kick off with this year&#x2019;s masterclass which is hosted by Provantage Media Group, where six captains of industry and business leaders will take to the stage to deliver thought provoking addresses on the topic of &#x2018;Effective Creative Innovation&#x2019;. The masterclass boasts a stellar lineup of speakers, including: Brett St Clair &#x2013; head of digital product management, Barclays AfricaLuke Mckend &#x2013; country director, Google South AfricaSinazo Sibisi &#x2013; social innovation consultant and corporate executiveJustin Spratt &#x2013; head of business, sub-Saharan Africa, UberGareth Cliff &#x2013; president, Cliffcentral.comNatalie Botha &#x2013; director, creative development, Africa & Middle East, Kantar Millward BrownThe prestigious and hugely popular annual awards ceremony, which attracts more than 400 captains of industry from the advertising and communications sector, commercial business, industry stakeholders, key stakeholders from government and members of the media will take place later, in the evening of the same day. Apex bursary programme Apex is more than just an opportunity to celebrate the effectiveness of communications campaigns - proceeds raised from the awards program and events funds much needed bursaries for deserving previously disadvantaged and female students from the AAA School of Advertising. A total of 60 students have been provided assistance with funding their tertiary education since the Apex bursary program was launched in 2010. Bursary recipients are selected against stringent criteria and without the funding provided by the Apex programme, may not be in a position to pay for and obtain their tertiary qualifications. By supporting the Apex events, patrons are afforded an opportunity to learn, gain valuable insights and be inspired from the best brains in business at the masterclass, network and attend the awards ceremony gala dinner, while investing in the future of the profession. Says Odette van der Haar, CEO of the ACA: &#x201c;This is a significant event for the profession. It is a celebration and recognition of work that works. Work that delivered a return on investment and/or objectives. Apex furthermore contributes to maintaining the high standards of the profession through the awarding of bursaries to deserving students at the AAA School of Advertising.&#x201d; &#x201c;The ACA thanks our key partners, sponsors and contributing companies for the collaboration and support provided to the Apex Awards. Without their participation, staging the events and providing much needed bursaries would not be possible. We thank all involved and look forward to a long and mutually beneficial partnership going forward,&#x201d; adds Van der Haar.