With the option of either two-courses or four-courses at R295 and R395 per person respectively this special is great value when you consider the quality of food that Terroir serves, the amount of awards they have amassed and that a welcome glass of Kleine Zalze bubbly or wine, varied bread board and a delectable amuse bouche is also included. If you would like to add wine pairing to the four-course tasting the price goes up to a reasonable R495 per person. Terroir-bly delicious: Plating up for Winter 2016Now in its 12th year of operation, Terroir continues to dazzle among Stellenbosch's cluster of culinary stars, with chef Michael Broughton at the helm...By Leigh Andrews 24 May 2016 Family feasting Terroir is homely and cosy and includes heaters and open fire places inside the unpretentious restaurant and a spacious patio outside for warmer weather. It&#x2019;s super family friendly so it was the perfect venue to treat my dad this past Father&#x2019;s Day. We went for broke and decided to indulge in the four-course tasting which includes two starters, one main and a dessert. This considerably stretched the lunch out into three-and-a-half-hour affair, however this was perfect for some quality dad, daughter bonding time. The courses are also fairly light so comfortably manageable, however extra sides, such as creamy mash and veg can be purchased if ordering a la carte. Risotto recommendation As there were four starters on offer we ordered one of each; I opted for the prawn risotto and smoked salmon while my dad chose the stilton souffl and braised lamb. For me the winning dish was the risotto with sauce Americaine; rich, creamy and crustaceany, it started my lunch on an absolute taste high. Not surprising to find out it's been a Terroir staple and on the menu for 11 years! Coming in second place was the pastilla (a type of Moroccan meat pie) of braised lamb with yogurt and medjool dates and ginger. Wonderfully aromatic this dish went down perfectly with the wintery weather. I thought the Norwegian smoked salmon with Nicola potatoes, cucumber wedges and green gazpacho better suited for a summery day and my dad found the souffl with celery, pear and lacquered pecan nuts a touch too sweet. After a decent breather, we dived into mains. As duck is not something you typically cook at home I often choose it when spotting it on a menu. It did not disappoint, the smoked duck breast with chestnut puree, orange sesame and pak choi was perfectly cooked and seasoned and a dish I definitely need to try again. My dad is a great seafood fan so made no hesitation in choosing the Kingklip, this comes with grapefruit beurre blanc, pickled sardines, fermented garlic aioli and roasted cherry tomatoes. Fresh and zingy this dish offers complex flavours in a light way. Sorbet satisfaction On to desserts and we ordered the trio of sorbet and the caramelised apple with maple and oat crunch and miso and caramelia chocolate ice cream. The sorbet included apple, litchi and raspberry flavours that day, each were outstanding; zingy, fresh and intensely fruity. The caramelised apple was a touch too stodgy for me however I need to give a major shout out to the miso and caramelia chocolate ice cream, such a unique and wonderful flavour. All in all, a perfect and indulgent family day out in the winelands, and one I would highly recommend. The winter special offer is valid till Saturday, 30 September, at both lunch and dinner. Two dishes (starter/main or main/dessert, served as standard-sized portions) from the la carte menu, with a glass of Kleine Zalze Vineyard Selection wine, costs R295 per person. The four-course tasting menu with/without wine pairing costs R395/R495 per person respectively. Individual la carte orders can still be made, and will be charged at the listed menu price. Terroir is open for lunch from Tuesdays to Sundays from 12h00 &#x2013; 14h30 and for dinner from Tuesdays to Saturdays from 18h30 &#x2013; 21h00. Advance reservations are highly recommended. To book call 021 880-8167 or email: az.oc.ezlazenielk&#64;tnaruatser . Please note that Terroir will be closed for their annual winter break from 3 July and re-opening on 25 July 2017. Kleine Zalze Wines and Terroir restaurant is situated on Strand Road (R44), Stellenbosch, South Africa. www.kleinezalze.co.za/terroir/cuisine *Ruth Cooper was a guest of Terroir.