Heart FM will once again take the microphone to the heart of Western Cape communities for the 16 Days For Youth initiative from 1 June 2017. The radio station will undertake youth-focused projects across the length and breadth of the province by broadcasting in its mobile studio for the first 16 days of June 2017. The initiative identifies projects in communities whereby the teams are able to bring people together to effect change. Last year the journey encountered Magda Meyer in Paarl from Magda&#x2019;s Soup Kitchen - The soup kitchen fed 2500 mouths per month and through HeartFM and it&#x2019;s partners Magda is now able to feed more than 20,000 per month. This is effecting change in our communities. This year the journey kicks off in Hawston and will travel on to Grabouw, Kenilworth, Heideveld, Robertson, Worcester, Tulbagh, Malmesbury, Constantia, Mitchell&#x2019;s Plain, Saldanha, Paternoster, Langebaan, Atlantis & Klipheuwel. The focus for the 16 Days for Youth this year will be more than just fixing, painting and lending a helping hand in the various towns. Many of the locations identified this year have been investigated and a more global stance will be taken. The aim is therefore to add emphasis on the challenges and sociology of each town while physically making a difference through our hands-on projects. Heart FM MD Renee Redelinghuys says: &#x201c;This is a very special project for everyone at Heart FM. We get to go into our communities, meet them, listen to them and most importantly give them the opportunity to tell their stories. As the biggest commercial radio station in the Western Cape it is our duty to give the youth in these communities a voice. The journey allows us to highlight the challenges, big and small, that our communities face on a daily basis and how you and I can help. Our listeners have big hearts and we know they will once again show how much they care. We can&#x2019;t wait to hit the road.&#x201d; Heart FM program manager Denver Apollus says: &#x201c;We will put our best forward once again and make a difference through sharing resources and providing a team effort. We will sacrifice 16 days of our time to understand and live the lives of those less fortunate. While we are using the station as a platform to raise awareness, the campaign is about telling the stories of others and how they engage in projects that make a difference. Heart FM may have started this initiative but we&#x2019;d like for our listeners and the rest of the country to adopt it and carry it on. Let&#x2019;s enable #16DaysForYouth and end it by celebrating Youth Day on 16 June.&#x201d; To find out how to get involved and how to join the journey, members of the public are urged to email az.oc.mftraeh&#64;htuoy . For more information visit the website: www.16DaysForYouth.com to follow the journey on Facebook - @16daysforyouth on Twitter - @16daysforyouth or Instagram - @16daysforyouth