Image supplied.The world-traveling series of concerts, club nights, exhibitions, talks and workshops returns to the German capital after 20 years, having touched down in cities across the globe, including Tokyo, New York, Melbourne, Cape Town, Paris, S o Paulo and Montr al, Every Academy is a world of its own, offering new insights and perspectives on sound as artists representing different genres, countries and eras come together. Sixty up-and-coming musicians are selected for each edition and flown to that year&#x2019;s host city, embarking on a creative journey that many describe as life changing. At the Academy, they hear lectures from artists who have shaped music history, exchange knowledge in all-night sessions in custom-built studios and collaborate with their peers from opposite corners of the globe, while the Academy simultaneously programmes a month-long series of public concerts and club nights all across the city. It all makes for a place where influential musicians meet a new generation, in a setting where both sides can learn from the other and celebrate music&#x2019;s past, present and future. Various Assets &#x2013; Not For Sale In keeping with the tradition of releasing a selection of tracks recorded at each Academy, the latest edition of &#x2018;Various Assets &#x2013; Not For Sale&#x2019; is out now to celebrate the launch of the application phase. The 48 tracks, recorded at Red Bull Music Academy Montr al 2016, feature studio team members, Thundercat, Just Blaze, &#x2018;Mad&#x2019; Mike Banks, Deradoorian, Mat as Aguayo, Dorian Concept, Lucrecia Dalt, Mathew Jonson, Ango, Branko, Marco Passarani and the Class of 2016. Instrumentalists, producers, DJs, engineers and vocalists of all levels of experience are encouraged to apply. All that is required is openness to collaboration and an interest in where music is heading. Each applicant must also submit a musical demo, no longer than 30 minutes. This can be uploaded here or mailed on a CD. The Red Bull Music Academy jury will announce the selected applicants in early 2018.