More than that, live events provide the context for better understanding of a brand&#x2019;s product or service than any form of advertising ever could and it&#x2019;s an effective platform for creating and distributing content between brands and consumers. Think of live events as a content factory where consumers are doing the work. Using their mobile devices they take photos, videos and distribute content from branded events across their own social networks which further adds to the effectiveness of the activation &#x2013; both in reach, engagement and credibility. This is a trend that&#x2019;s showing no signs of slowly down and is only going to heat up. With this as the premise, and recognising that experiential marketing has become one of the world&#x2019;s fastest growing forms of marketing, South African brands would do well to consider including events, promotions and activations in their brand marketing plans. Strategically planned and effective execution that touches all the senses, and combines the best elements of social media and above- and below-the-line branding in the mix, will provide interactive powerful &#x2013; if not explosive &#x2013; customer experiences that tick all the right boxes: engagement, education, trial, and repeat purchase. With over 20 years in the industry, Isilumko Activate Executive Lauren Durant is well positioned to share insights into an industry that has been radically transformed by social media and the digital age. She talks to @eBiz Radio&#x2019;s Nic Vonstein about the value of brand activation in driving brand loyalty and shares advice on what best practice looks like when it comes to crafting creative, interactive customer experiences. Listen to the podcast here: http://www.ebizradio.com/podcast/lauren%20durant.mp3. About Lauren Durant Lauren Durant is an Executive at Isilumko Activate. She&#x2019;s been with the company since its inception and has contributed significantly to the evolution of the business to one of the market leaders in the activations space. Durant spends much of her time with clients, understanding their needs and assisting in the development of cutting-edge activations strategies. Parallel to this, she mentors members of the team to do the same, often lauding the value of co-operation and communication &#x2013; all of which contributes to the customer-centric culture of the organisation which is built from the heart and soul of its people. About Isilumko Activate Isilumko Activate (powered by Studentwise) is a company focused on facilitating creative, integrated one-on-one interactions between a brand and the consumer. With impressive credentials built up over 24 years in the in the industry, this level 1 BBBEE accredited company has a rock-solid reputation that attracts and retains staff that are as passionate about activations as the company&#x2019;s original founder members.