John Mashiri As it's Youth Month, I thought his story could provide inspiration for other young brand gurus or creative students starting out in their careers, and who better than this natural storyteller to tell you himself... Congratulations on receiving the Pendoring Pencil Award! What does this mean to you? Thank you, I feel honoured and humbled to receive this award and it gives me confidence that I am on the right path in my life. Why brand management? To be honest, as cheesy as this sounds, I don&#x2019;t think I chose brand management but brand management chose me. I didn&#x2019;t even know it existed, but the minute I got to Vega to check out the school, I knew that this is what I wanted to study. Why did you decide to study at Vega? And tell us a bit about your experience there. I chose Vega because it seemed different to the average creative school. On the day of my interview I was told to make a up a story and really sell it based on a random topic (and anyone who knows me knows I love to tell a good story or listen to one). My experience at Vega has been interesting. I loved every moment of it, even the tough times which don&#x2019;t seem tough once you think about it now (haha), but Vega was always fun and happy and the campus was small and intimate, so everybody knew everybody. I also fondly remember some amazing lecturers, two in particular (Sam and Amalia), who were a big part of my experience at Vega and I doubt I would ever forget them. What are you most looking forward to in terms of your career?What do you hope to achieve? I hope to have a successful international company and to change mindsets. Where do you see yourself in the next few years? In the next few years I don&#x2019;t know where I see myself to be honest. I embrace unpredictability, but I would like to be well on my way to becoming a better strategist and establishing my company. Where do you hope to work? I don't know where I want to work. I just want there to be a lot of opportunities for me to grow and hopefully travel to different offices.</li></li>What motivates you? What motivates me is &#x2018;the story&#x2019;. I like knowing the story behind something, but like the motivator behind that person&#x2019;s decision of making or doing a certain thing, because within a story is an experience, and who doesn&#x2019;t love to experience new things? Tell us a bit about your side business. Although only registered at the beginning of the year, I started Yung Movement in 2012, which only had one goal in mind, which was to change the mindset of the people it comes into contact with. By changing their mindsets I mean help them become who they truly are and embrace it no matter what others may think. This company was not made to just brand people, but to create a new mindset of the &#x2018;young&#x2019; generation. Although we starting of by just simply helping individuals and businesses tell their own story, but soon I want it go beyond that and just become a way of life. It&#x2019;s a big statement but that is my goal. Right now it&#x2019;s just a side business but I do intend on putting a lot more time into it once I&#x2019;ve gained more experience. How active are you on social media? Which social media channel is your favourite? What is your favourite emoji or most-used hashtag? I am very active on social media. Facebook is my best app. It has everything I need to satisfy my cravings. My favorite emoji is the one of the guy walking away. I overuse that emoji even when I am not supposed to and I rarely use hashtags (I am not cool enough for that). As a young South African, what, in your opinion, is the significance of Youth Month in 2017? In my opinion Youth Month should be a celebration of young excellence. I know the real meaning behind it and I do not want to take anything away from that, but I do believe the month should be more about the youth succeeding at their &#x201c;hustle&#x201d; no matter the occupation and we should not only be celebrating the groundbreaking things done by youth (which is cool) rather just youth who are doing the best they can and succeeding at it. What advice would you give to other young creatives starting out in their careers? The only advice I can give is that the only opinion that matters is yours because if you truly believe in what you are doing, it&#x2019;s only a matter of time before someone else believes in it too. For more of where this came from, follow John Mashiri on Facebook @JohnMashiri, Instagram @johnmashiri, Twitter @Thebidness305 and LinkedIn @JohnMashiri. The 2017 Pendoring gala event takes place on Friday, 27 October. If you haven't entered, you still have until 1 August. For more information, go to Pendoring.co.za. Vega students beat the clock in design competitionThe National Council of and for Persons with Disabilities (NCPD) gave Vega students 12 hours to design its new logo in a Design Jam...1 day ago