Eric Abraham produces and presents this Fugard Theatre production, which runs from Tuesday, 25 July to Saturday, 2 September 2017 at the Fugard Theatre in Cape Town and then at the Mandela Theatre in Johannesburg from Tuesday, 12 September to Sunday, 8 October 2017. The official opening night in Cape Town is Wednesday, 2 August after a week of previews. King Kong &#x2013; The Musical tells the story of heavyweight fifties boxing champion Ezekiel Dlamini whose self-appointed ring name was "King Kong" to the wildly exhilarating music of Todd Matshikiza. The 1959 production of South Africa's first black musical was set in Sophiatown in Johannesburg in the late-fifties. King Kong toured South Africa, and was seen by 200,000 South Africans, playing to record-breaking and multi-racial audiences &#x2013; as apartheid was being implemented &#x2013; before transferring in February 1961 to London&#x2019;s West End for a 200-performance run. King Kong launched the international careers of Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela among many others. &#x201c;We are thrilled that this long-awaited production of this iconic and first South African musical of King Kong, is a Fugard Theatre production which will showcase the very best of South African talent,&#x201d; says Daniel Galloway the executive director of the Fugard Theatre. &#x201c;The original production united audiences of all colours, launched careers and put South African talent firmly on the international map. We are excited to be re-creating the world of the "Back of the Moon" shebeen with an all-South African cast and superb creative team. While remaining true to the original production our Fugard Theatre King Kong will refresh the musical for the 21st Century". Director, screenwriter, musical direction and set design The Fugard Theatre&#x2019;s King Kong is directed by Jonathan Munby who directed the Fugard Theatre's production of A Human Being Died That Night with Noma Dumezweni (the only double Olivier award-winning Southern African actor) amongst many other international productions. Following King Kong Munby directs Sir Ian McKellen in Shakespeare's King Lear for the Chichester Festival in the UK. The revised book (with additional lyrics) is by Academy Award-nominated screenwriter and playwright, William Nicholson (Shadowlands, Gladiator, Les Miserables, Sarafina, Long Walk to Freedom). South African choreographer star and recent French Legion D&#x2019;Honneur recipient Gregory Maqoma will choreograph King Kong to the irresistible original music of the late great South African composer Todd Matshikiza. The Fugard Theatre&#x2019;s production sees musical direction by Charl-Johan Lingenfelder (West Side Story, Funny Girl, Cabaret) and Sipumzo Lucwaba with arrangements and additional music by Charl-Johan Lingenfelder. Set design is by Paul Wills (A Human Being Died that Night, Royal Shakespeare Company's Hamlet, West End &#x2013; Wyndham's Theatre &#x2013; David Mamet's American Buffalo); Costume design by Birrie le Roux (West Side Story, Orpheus in Africa, District Six: Kanala); Lighting Design by Tim Mitchell (A Human Being Died That Night; Royal Shakespeare Company's King Lear with Antony Sher &#x2013; Associate artist RSC/Chichester Festival Theatre) and Sound Design by Mark Malherbe (West Side Story, Funny Girl). The associate director is Mdu Kweyama. Cast Cast in the title role of King Kong is South African star &#x2013; actor, singer and dancer Andile Gumbi. Gumbi made his Broadway debut as Simba in Disney&#x2019;s The Lion King and has starred in productions of this musical in London, Sydney, Melbourne, Shanghai and South Africa. Gumbi, who was voted by The Sowetan as one of Mzansi's Sexiest Top 12 celebs in 2015, is the character Zweli in the Mzansi Magic soap opera isiBaya, which was voted most popular TV soap at the 2017 Safta Awards. Multiple award-winning actress and singer-songwriter Nondumiso Tembe will be recreating the role of Joyce, which propelled Miriam Makeba to international fame in the original production of King Kong. Tembe's extensive list of credits include HBO&#x2019;s Golden Globe and Emmy-award winning True Blood, SABC&#x2019;s Generations, the military drama Six on the History Channel and Zulu Wedding opposite Darrin Dewitt Henson. She won the &#x2018;Best Actress in a Supporting Role&#x2019; Naledi Theatre Award in 2014 for her portrayal of Susan in David Mamet&#x2019;s Race, which toured South Africa, and to the Edinburgh Festival. Her debut album Izwi Lami &#x2013; My Voice received much acclaim including a Metro FM Music Award for &#x2018;Best Music Video&#x2019;. The Fugard Theatre's King Kong cast includes: Sanda Shandu as Lucky (Orpheus in Africa); Tshamano Sebe as Jack (Athol Fugard's Painted Rocks at Revolver Creek; Master Harold and the Boys; Noem my Skollie); Ntambo Rapatla as Miriam (Menopause the Musical); Sne Dladla as Pop (District Six: Kanala; Orpheus in Africa; Painted Rocks at Revolver Creek); Lerato Mvelase as Petal (Isibaya; Play Me) and Sabelo Radebe as Caswell (West Side Story; Peter Pan) . Also performing with the ensemble are Joel Zuma (Sophiatown; Kwela Bafana &#x2013; The Musical); Ben Kgosimore (The Adventures of Oliver Twist; 'I, Oedipus'; Singular Sensation); Athenkozi Mfamela (In The City of Paradise; Bash or Be Bashed); Shalom Zamisa (Voices of Hope; Sarafina); Sibusiso Mxosana (West Side Story; Funny Girl; A Spartacus of Africa); Aphiwe Menziwa (Passage; Inexba Lomphillisi); Namisa Mdlalose (Rent); Siphiwe Nkabinde (Exit/Exist; Music in the Air); Lungelwa Mdekazi (African Angels; Phantom of the Opera); Dolly Louw (Peter Pan; The Boys in the Photograph); Barileng Malibye (Sophiatown; Making Mandela; Dogma; Emotional Creature); Edith Plaatjies (District Six: Kanala; Orpheus in Africa; Blood Brothers); Rushney Ferguson (District Six: Kanala) and Given Mkhize (Sacredspace; In The End is My Beginning). A live 9-piece band, under the direction of Sipumzo Lucwaba, will accompany the action at every performance. Bookings can be made through Computicket on 0861 915 8000, online at or at any Shoprite Checkers outlet. Bookings can also be made at the Fugard Theatre box office on 021 461 4554. There is a generous 15% discount available for the Friends of the Fugard members. For further information click here.