Across the last 39 years, the GL events Group has achieved unparalleled growth within the events and exhibitions industry. From a small start-up company born in 1978 in Vaubecour street in Lyon France, the company has expanded its stature and footprint to become one of the key players in the International Events and Exhibitions industry. The group consists of three main business units: GL events LIVE Offers expertise, covering all business line specialisations and services for corporate, institutional, political and sports events, and providing turn-key solutions, from consulting services, design and the ultimate result of producing and delivering the actual event. The LIVE division has more than one million references in stock and produces 50% of the annual Group revenue. GL events Venues Proudly manages a network of 40 venues, which include amongst others, convention centres, exhibition centres, concert halls and multi-purpose facilities. The facilities combined hosts in excess of 4000 events per year and are situated across 25 worldwide destinations. The largest venues under management can host up to 100,00 pax. GL events Exhibitions Takes care of the managing and coordination of the group's portfolio of more than 300 proprietary trade fairs, including the food industry, automotive, culture, textiles and manufacturing sectors, to name but a few. The overall statistics of the group shows a long lasting success story, more than 900 million Euro revenue annually, 4200 employees worldwide and 11 million visitors and exhibitors. The group has been operational in South Africa since 2010 and currently has three branches based in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town. The branches specialise in full turnkey solutions to the Events, Exhibitions and Retail industry, with more than 140 events and exhibitions, and 200 projects executed every year. GL events believe in supporting the local area and growing the local businesses to its full potential and has been actively seeking opportunities to enhance the service offering to the local market. In the last few months, the company has launched some new solutions into the industry and many more developments are planned to make South Africa part of the GL events success story.