When I chatted to Matsau at the end of last year, he said: Cinema has been around for more than 120 years because humans love to escape; to be immersed in an experience, a story. So the advertiser gets all these beautiful emotive things that cannot be bought through any other channel.Fitting for #YouthMonth, Cinemark has once again opened up a young SA creative team&#x2019;s opportunities to go head-to-head in the Cannes Young Lions film competition, working on a live brief and proving themselves on the world-stage in the process. Motheo Matsau, chief of marketing and sales at Ster-Kinekor. Here, Matsau elaborates on the magic of Cinemark&#x2019;s continued involvement with Cannes Lions, as well as the benefits of this for SA&#x2019;s creative industry, the business of cinema advertising and what he is personally looking forward to from Cannes Lions 2017. Let&#x2019;s start off with an overview of Cinemark&#x2019;s continued involvement with the Cannes Lions. Cinemark is the official local representative for the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. Over many years, we have supported the festival, establishing a partnership beyond the cinema screen, one that extends to recognising the art of film-making as a whole, together. The continuous efforts and investments and growth over the years have given us the privilege of associating with the prestigious festival, bringing it home to South Africa to recognise local talent. South African cubs ready to roar at Cannes LionsSouth Africa's Cinemark Young Lions' winners are ready to compete in the global Cannes Lions competition...1 day ago Our ongoing investment in the film sector &#x2014; beyond being an exhibitor, as Cinemark and Ster-Kinekor has allowed us to build partnerships within the South African industry at large &#x2014; with the National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF), the South African School of Motion Picture Medium and Live Performance (AFDA), upcoming filmmakers and local film bodies and industry events like the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas), as well as recognising and celebrating young talent. This has underscored our ongoing commitment to the art and celebration of filmmaking in all its forms. Excellent. Talk us though the impact for the Cannes Lions SA judges and Young Lions competition winners specifically. We serve as a local arm to help support and drive the awareness of the festival in South Africa, through our on the ground efforts; announcement of the SA Cannes judges, sharing of Cannes content and driving the SA Young Lions Competition. This year, Cinemark is sponsoring the Film category for the Young Lions Competition where we will take the winning team to Cannes, courtesy of Air France, to attend the festival and compete in the global competition. #CannesLions: Don't put your creative flow at riskOne of the winners of the 2015 Cinemark Young Lions competition, Hanro Havenga reflects on his experience and gives some valuable advice to the 2017 winners...By Juanita Pienaar 9 hours ago The Cannes Young Lions is close to our brand&#x2019;s heart. We continue to strive and make headway within the creative youth space in order to provide platforms to the future creatives, as well as inspire the existing talents. Through our partnership with the Cannes Young Lions, we strongly believe in the possibility of working together to empower, inspire and grow the talent pool among our youth, creatives and film-makers. What are the benefits of this for SA&#x2019;s creative industry as a whole then? Over the years, the Cannes festival has recognised our South African talent pool as a firm player on the international playing field. It&#x2019;s important that we continue to drive awareness and support to celebrate our wins as South Africans, the industry&#x2019;s growth and continue to encourage our youth to live their dreams. #CannesLions2016: All the South African winners!The 2016 version of Cannes Lions' Festival of Creativity has come to a close, with South African agencies roaring with pride at their 61 awards received...27 Jun 2016 Our ongoing involvement is entrenched in the support to call out our wins and continuous drive to search for our country&#x2019;s eager and talented individuals through the Cannes Young Lions competition. Definitely a much-needed initiative. What are you personally looking forward to from Cannes Lions 2017? We&#x2019;ll be cheering for the SA team to win the Young Lions award in the Film category, and we wish them all the best on this great experience. We&#x2019;re also very excited to support and celebrate the wins from our South African entries at this year&#x2019;s festival. We are also looking forward to new trends and advertising styles. #CannesLions: The gold standard in creative excellenceJason Xenopoulos, CEO and CCO at Native VML, speaks about his role as jury member for the Cannes Entertainment Lions, how he's set to take Africa's creative revolution to the Cannes stage, and more...By Leigh Andrews 1 day ago Our SA Cannes judges will along with other key talents/ winners will be part of our Cannes Workshop to showcase and discuss key industry trends and learnings post the festival&#x2026; be sure to visit our website and keep an eye on Biz for more information! Exciting times. Let&#x2019;s end with an overview of the business of cinema advertising. We are innovating in the marketing products we offer as well as on the entertainment front. We are open and flexible to collaborating with media buyers in all parts of the media space. Cinema advertising complements other media and you&#x2019;ll will better ROI if they get that science right &#x2013; using the excitement of cinema as part of the campaign. #SustainabilityMonth: How Cinemark is walking the CSI talkCinemark, part of the Ster-Kinekor family, recently took home the best media owner in the cinema category MOST award. Motheo Matsau, chief marketing and sales officer of Ster-Kinekor Theatres explains how this is proof of their winning CSR strategy...By Leigh Andrews 6 Oct 2016 If you want your message to be impactful, cinema is the platform. It&#x2019;s a great opportunity for agency creatives to stretch creativity, through and in-cinema experience. The unique physical environment of a cinema offers exciting and new opportunities for experimental, experiential activations and out-of-home advertising to tangibly engage with customers. Seems cinema and the art of the moving image is definitely the platform for the future. The Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity 2017 takes place from 17&#x2013;24 June 2017, with Cinemark the local representatives of Cannes Lions for SA. Click through to our special section for the latest updates.