Amore Paulsen in the Laastedrif libraryAs early as in 2003, 60% of the ownership of Morceaux farm, a 93-hectare apple and pear farm adjacent to Ceres and part of the Laastedrif business, was transferred to a group of farm workers. By growing and diversifying their farming and business activities, Laastedrif has managed to guarantee financial stability and sustainability. Seeing herds of Eland and other wildlife on Laastedrif demonstrates the lengths to which they go in protecting biodiversity. In addition to several conservation efforts, all farming activities are run according to best industry practice guidelines for natural resource management. The wellbeing of staff Staff have the opportunity to benefit from training courses to broaden their skills sets: there are schools and cr ches for children along with an on-farm clinic with full-time trained nurse, Sister Susan Rabe and a library with full-time librarian Somaria van Deventer. Perhaps the most impressive aspect of the business is the care and attention that is given to ensure a safe and happy work environment for the staff at Laastedrif and in recognising the diversity and origin of their workforce so that respect and individual freedom of association are engendered. &#x201c;We take the wellbeing of our people very seriously&#x201d;, says owner Cill , &#x201c;and have partnered with organisations such as Patmos to provide spiritual counselling and support to our staff. We&#x2019;ve also increased the basket of products we grow at Laastedrif with the goal of providing year-long work for seasonal workers. We also do what we can to support the social interests of our staff by providing sports uniforms and free transport to matches.&#x201d; Laastedrif also changed the way they pay seasonal workers by offering productivity-based incentives. Our remuneration and bonus structure provides employees with the opportunity to earn up to 20% more than their normal day-wage, which is based on individual effectiveness and productivity incentives. The employer also provides housing and related benefits to its employees as well as electricity at 30% less than normal municipal rates.&#x201d; Tru-Cape&#x2019;s Managing Director, Roelf Pienaar says that having a progressive grower such as Cill on the board is not only valuable because of the top farming experience he brings but also as a reminder of the role that growers can play in improving the quality of life for all South Africans.