Image SuppliedOf particular note is their Farmer's Market. Since 2004, the team has hosted a market at their warehouse every Monday and Friday, enabling over 400 local smallholder farmers in the greater Livingstone and Kazungula districts to sell their produce to both properties and improve their livelihoods. To help these farmers protect their harvest from environmental perils like black frost and drought, the team partners with the Agribusiness in Sustainable Natural African Plant Products (ASNAPP) &#x2013; a partnership that was forged 'by accident' when the NGO hosted their conference at Avani Victoria Falls Resort. This project has been hugely successful. A hundred percent of the fruit and vegetables used in the kitchens of Royal Livingstone Victoria Falls Zambia Hotel by Anantara and Avani Victoria Falls Resort are now locally sourced, enabling the cluster to reduce their food cost from 35% to 30% of their budget and improve their F&B offering. An exceptional selection of locally-inspired dishes has now been created to enhance culinary journeys at both properties, much to the delight of guests. But the team didn't stop there. The Farmer's Market is currently being piloted for farmers in the 20km radius of Livingstone central town. Amongst other agricultural and entrepreneurship projects, the team's Worm Farm has managed a total of 90kg of organic waste from both properties, producing compost manure to fertilise their Herb Garden. In nearby Nsongwe village, a four-acre fruit and vegetable nursery has been set up in partnership with ASNAPP to provide a better livelihood for 3,000 villagers. "From the onset, our vision has been to transform the tourism industry in Zambia by offering the highest standards of sustainable hospitality," said Moneger. "I'm happy that our projects have had an impact in uplifting the social and economic development of our local communities, whilst at the same time playing our part in preserving our environment, strengthening our partnership with national and international organisations and enhancing the guest experience."