After having operated in the local South African market for 15 years, we will begin trading as NMPi. Currently, NMPi has offices in Australia, the UK, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. &#x201c;The rebrand is a culmination of months of planning to align our service offering and company into a global outfit which is able to provide the very best insight, strategy and delivery to South African companies. Our clients can expect the same business and technical support, with the added benefit of all the knowledge and deep insight from our global team,&#x201d; comments Adriaan Strydom, Managing Director of NMPi South Africa. NMPi&#x2019;s holding company, IncuBeta, is also a South African success story, with its global headquarters in Cape Town. The company began in 2003 and has grown steadily, now employing more than 400 full-time staff in offices in 13 countries. &#x201c;NMPi South Africa is expected to see good growth over the next year. The global NMPi group, meanwhile, will continue to expand into new markets allowing the transfer of some unique strategies, processes, and tools. Together, we are strengthening our international positioning and our comprehensive services which will, in turn, significantly benefit local clients,&#x201d; says Alan Lipchitz, IncuBeta Group CEO. We offer our clients a full range of digital marketing services: digital strategy and planning, SEO, display marketing and media buying, real-time bidding (RTB), paid search (PPC), social media marketing, analytics, and data intelligence. Our innovation hub, now re-branded as NMPi Labs, will continue to focus on research and development. It currently offers augmented and virtual realities strategy, as well as campaign execution and measurement. &#x201c;The South African market is showing a growing sophistication as our local marketing professionals embrace new technology and its ability to deliver meaningful business benefits. NMPi South Africa is ideally positioned to help clients deliver campaigns which can easily measure up to the best in the world,&#x201d; Jonathan Gluckman, CEO of NMPi Asia-Pacific and Africa.