Image Supplied The Garden Route National Park (GRNP) plays a significant role in the local tourism economy by managing and protecting the natural assets that attract visitors to the area. This includes the freshwater systems, the Knysna Estuary, and the indigenous forest systems. The procurement process started with a call for suitable service providers to submit proposals. Public advertisements were published in local and Regional media on 3 November 2016 and a due diligence site visit was held on 17 November 2016. The deadline for bids was 13 January 2017. Only one bid was received despite the use of multiple communication platforms used to relay the information regarding the tender process. Documents detailing the Request for Proposals (RFP) were also downloadable from the SANParks website. Environmental management All activities, including the zipline, must comply with the Garden Route National Park&#x2019;s zoning plan. The zoning of an area indicates what activities may take place in different sections and the conservation objectives of those sections. Image Supplied The bid indicated strict adherence to an Operational Environmental Management Plan (OEMP) for working within the forest location to ensure that there will be limited or low impact on the natural environment. Prior to the installation of the zipline, site visits with SANParks EIA specialists and scientists will take place to discuss technical details for the construction of the zipline. Back in November 2016, a site visit was arranged with representatives of the Department of Environmental Affairs to ensure compliance with environmental legislation. Park Manager of the GRNP, Paddy Gordon, says: "This is to ensure what is on paper translates to appropriate actions on the ground that are environmentally sensitive. Our products must live our brand, and our business is to protect nature at all costs and ensure minimum impact to it." Harkerville is home to popular cycling trails, a Green flag hiking trail (Perdekop) and other day trails (the Flora trail and others), one spectacular multi-day hike (the Harkerville Coastal hiking trail with newly-installed geocaches), ample picnic spots and selfie spots (Harkerville Viewpoint) and a one-of-a-kind luxury treetop chalet.