Flume, Two Door Cinema Club, Black Coffee After years of high demand, 25-year-old Grammy-winning Australian producer Flume (Harley Streten) is finally set to headline Rocking the Daisies, bringing his highly visual set and globally renowned, experimental, future bass sound to the South African stage. Two Door Cinema Club also join the star-filled lineup with their infectious alt-pop sound. Singer Alex Trimble, guitarist Sam Halliday and bassist Kevin Baird formed the band in 2008 and have released three highly acclaimed albums; Platinum-certified Tourist History, Beacon and their latest offering, the Bowie and Prince inspired Gameshow, which is by far their most enthralling and danceable record. Few words reflect the impact that Black Coffee has had on South African music. He now returns to Rocking the Daisies as one of the world&#x2019;s most relevant and in-demand artists. With thrilling performances at festivals such as Coachella and Ultra Miami, a summer residency in Ibiza and what appears as an endless list of accolades, including a series of Platinum Certified tracks and a wealth of Metro FM Awards, Samas and Channel O awards, Black Coffee&#x2019;s superstar profile is unchallenged. The Naked and the Famous, Joey Bada$$, Cassper Nyovest Hailing from Auckland, New Zealand, The Naked and Famous is a must-see act at Daisies. Their soaring songs stacked with anthemic hooks will make your weekend. Meanwhile, American, independent hip-hop artist Joey Bada$$ comes from Brooklyn, New York. With his rugged style, Joey Bada$$ is placed among hip-hop&#x2019;s elite and is a staple in the industry for maintaining an authentic, unique and versatile sound. South African producer and rapper Cassper Nyovest is one of the country&#x2019;s highest profile hip hop entertainers. With 18 awards under his belt and Platinum certified track Refiloe, Cassper is affectionately referred to as &#x2018;Mr. Fill Up&#x2019; by locals, for filling The Dome with 20,000 fans in 2015 and for 2016&#x2019;s filling of Orlando Stadium; a 40,000-capacity venue in a game changing moment for the hip hop genre in South Africa. Joining the Daisies lineup for the first time, his chart-topping hits fused with his magnetic charisma never fail to guarantee an incredible live show. Snakehips, Sam Paganini, Patrick Topping London based production duo Snakehips (Oliver Lee and James Carter) are hot on the Daisies fans&#x2019; wish list! Best known for their 2015 single All My Friends, they made their name with Hype Machine chart-topping remixes for Banks, The Weeknd, Bondax and Wild Belle, which between them have notched up more than 30 million plays on Soundcloud and YouTube. Italian DJ and producer Sam Paganini&#x2019;s unique musical journey has achieved great success both on the underground circuit as well as on the mainstream channels. Beside his studio work and production time, Sam&#x2019;s DJ appearances are among the most requested by promoters worldwide. Award winning DJ Patrick Topping has burst onto the global scene and cemented his place in the of the top-tier of dance music. Part the new wave of electronic music producers coming from the north of England, he is a pioneering force for a generation of upcoming artists, reflected in recently being voted 11th in Resident Advisor&#x2019;s Top100 DJ's of 2016 and picked as 15th by Mixmag. Fokofpolisiekar, Riky Rick, Die Heuwels Fantasties Leading the charge from the infamous hills of Bellville Rock City, Fokofpolisiekar needs little introduction. Infamous for their powerful live shows, these local legends have always done things differently. Expect a total jol from their set! Meanwhile, South African producer and rapper Riky Rick&#x2019;s first performance at Daisies is, without a doubt, going to be one of the festival highlights! He&#x2019;s a game changer; he&#x2019;s raw, he&#x2019;s inspiring, he&#x2019;s a culture king. Die Heuwels Fantasties have had the music industry at their feet right from the start. As one of the most successful Afrikaans alternative pop rock acts in the country, they are considered the music pioneers of their generation and have won every notable award in SA. Ray Phiri and Beatenberg Iconic South African jazz legend Ray Phiri will also be playing Daisies for the first time. He became founding member of the Cannibals in the 1970s and when they disbanded, Ray founded Stimela, with whom he conceived Gold and Platinum-selling albums. Phiri has received many awards in recognition for his contribution in the music industry, one of these is the Order of Ikhamanga in Silver awarded to him by the South African president. Since the release of their debut album, The Hanging Gardens of Beatenberg, this Cape Town-based band has upended entrenched notions of what constitutes South African music. Beatenberg&#x2019;s sublimely crafted pop is rooted in indigenous styles but also draws an intoxicating mix of influences (reggae, jazz, classical, kwaito, house) that have helped turn the three-piece into chart toppers and multiple award-winners at home. More acts performing This year&#x2019;s lineup is an endless list of incredible talent and includes names like Bongeziwe Mabandla, Sibot x Toyota, Shortstraw, Felix Laband, Alice Phoebe Lou, DJ Dimplez, PHFat, The Kiffness, YoungtaCPT, DJ Lag, Shekhinah, Speedsta, Floyd Lavine, Rubber Duc, Kid Fonque, Timo ODV, Diamond Thug, Frank Casino, Haezer, Kenzhero, Grimehouse, Niskerone, Strange Loving, DJ Azhul, Sho Madjozi, Tune Raider, Lucy Kruger, Josh Kempen, Vato Kayde, The Sweet Resistance, Rumswinger, Hi, I&#x2019;m K-$, Mvelo, Bruce Loko, Shane Eagle, Rudeboyz, Leeu, Brother, Lady M, JNN KPN, Dogstarr, Siphe Tebeka B2B Dark Light, Dunn Kidda, Rebel Clef, Linda Meyer, Soulcraft, Patty Monroe, Vuyo Renene, Leighton Moody B2B Cassiem Latief, Rob Toca B2B Ashton, Pierre-Estienne B2B Julz Sanchez, Abby Nurock, White Nite, Pascoe, Brett Aitken B2B Dane Stirrat, Miss CJ B2B Douglas Olsson, VJ Jonno, Uncool Luke, CTRL Room, Nick Grater, Chad Da Don, Dirty Skittlez, Aux Gawd, Chrizz Beatz, GinaJeanz, D_Know, Paradise Citizens, Dan Tempo, Dwson, Lazersharkk ft Miki San Tzu, Paul Waxon, Tommy Gun B2B Mudblud, Daddy Warbucks and Sebastian Dark, and many, many more... If you want to get closer to the acts, check out @rockingthedaisy Instagram every Wednesday as one artist on the #RTD2017 lineup will be taking over the event&#x2019;s account for an entire day. You&#x2019;ll get a glimpse into their life and what you can expect from their Daisies performance through Instagram Stories. Tickets, Accommodation and Cashless Visit the Rocking the Daisies website for tickets and accommodation. Phase 1 and 2 tickets are sold out. Tickets for the 3rd and final phase are available for R1,050 (excluding booking fees). The festival&#x2019;s 100% cashless this year, meaning it&#x2019;ll be faster, more efficient and safer for all festival-goers. Daisies will launch new experiences and cool festival changes over the next few months, so keep your eye on its pages to be the first in the know. Join the conversation Rocking the Daisies website Facebook: RockingtheDaisiesFestival Twitter: @RockingtheDaisy #RTD2017