2017 Eco-Logic Awards winners announcedThe Eco-Logic Awards 2017, hosted by The Enviropaedia, took place at the CSIR in Tshwane on Wednesday, 14 June, honouring individuals and organisations who are contributing to a sustainable future...2 days ago Reliance Compost won a gold Eco-Logic Award in the Recycling and Waste Management category, which recognises a policy, programme, or project that has demonstrably contributed to a greater public understanding and participation in waste reduction, re-use, and recycling. GreenCape&#x2019;s WISP Programme claimed silver in the Recycling and Waste Management category, followed by PEACE winning bronze. Reliance Compost Director, Eddie Redelinghuys touted: "We are extremely proud and honoured to have received this award. A special thank you to the Reliance team for all your efforts and contribution over the past years to making South Africa a greener place for all. Congratulations to all Eco-Logic Award nominees and winners." The reliance mission Reliance is an organic compost provider in the South Africa, producing 100% Certified Organic Compost from green garden refuse. Over the years it has diverted over 18 million cubic metres of green material from City of Cape Town landfill sites, preventing more than 1,000,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide gas escaping into the atmosphere &#x2013; a substantial contribution to reducing the impact caused by climate change. The company&#x2019;s mission is to Grow Greener Generations, and it does this by getting involved in the community through sponsorships, tree-planting projects and developing communal food gardens. David Parry-Davies, editor of The Enviropaedia and driving force behind the Awards says: "We are amazed and delighted by the calibre of entries that we have received for this year&#x2019;s Awards, and seeing the great strides individuals and corporate South Africa have made in creating a more sustainable future for us all. Yet again, we have received high-quality entries from corporates, municipalities, environment and development organisations, communities, SMME&#x2019;s, and committed individuals."