Lenox The Lenox brand, part of the Newell Tools acquisition, offers durable, professional accessories for a vast array of industries and niche applications. &#x201c;Lenox has defined performance in the reciprocating saw blade category since inventing the first bi-metal reciprocating saw blade in 1977. Lenox has used its century of cutting expertise to lead the way in recip performance and is redefining performance levels in the bi-metal reciprocating category with the introduction of Power Blast Technology &#x2013; high speed blasting along the cutting edge which strengthens the blade to reduce breaks and increase durability,&#x201d; says Mayan Desai, trade marketing manager for Stanley Black & Decker Southern Africa. Irwin The second brand launched at the event, Irwin, also part of the Newell acquisition, boasts a hardy and durable range of hand tools and accessories for the professional and for the industry. &#x201c;From professional plumbers to electricians and builders, Irwin provides the best in class hand tools and accessories from curved jaw and fast release vice-grips, to GrooveLock pliers, to Bi-Metal hole saws with WeldTec technology, Irwin has the right tool for the right job. Bi-metal hole saws, for example, cut through a variety of materials, including aluminium, copper, iron, stainless steel, wood and zinc. The electron beam welded High Speed Steel (HSS) cutting edge ensures longer lasting teeth. The precision set teeth provide faster penetration and cutting and the bi-metal construction delivers toughness and long life,&#x201d; says Desai. Facom and Expert The third brand launched locally at the event, is the high-end French, specialised hand tool brand Facom and the sub-brand Expert. These tools have very specific applications such as for the aeronautics or automotive industries. The Facom range has hand tools equipped with digital technology, for example, a toolkit that is designed for repairing an aircraft has RFID technology to ensure that every tool is put back into its rightful place and is not mislaid in the propeller of an aeroplane. Facom also make a range of non-sparking power tools, for use in any environment where sparks would cause a health and safety risk. For nearly 100 years, Facom has set the standard for quality and innovation in industrial tools.