Image source: https://www.brightmove.com What makes social media considerably more popular is the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. This is because it has become a much more convenient way to get social. Moreover, you can easily download a mobile app of your choice, or create mobile apps with Zapable for a more customised design with features you want. All these contribute to the advantages of smartphones. As a result, more and more people are using smartphones and mobile devices to get connected with people, not only through phone calls and text messages, but also primarily through social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and Google+. For businesses, this phenomenon offers a great opportunity, and today we will go further into how social media has changed the way we market to customers. Advertising Image source: http://www.visualvisitor.com On the advertising side, social media is a great tool for brand exposure. This is because real people with defined characteristics can be found on social networking sites. They are not just passive readers of websites they also interact and give their opinions. The most significant fact entrepreneurs should consider is that anything can become viral in social media. When you share quality content with an audience, they will also share it with their friends, followers, or connections. Although it&#x2019;s difficult to measure the success as there is no guarantee a post can become viral, there is also a probability that a single share of one well-known person can make your post go viral. Aside from that, you have the opportunity to grow your own followers who may become interested in your campaigns. In this way, you can easily determine your target audience for your ads, and if you're following is already large, you won&#x2019;t need to resort to paid advertising. All you need is to post your campaign. Marketing Advertising and marketing through social media may be similar, but they&#x2019;re different in the sense that marketing seeks an immediate result. Social media advertising is designed to inform a large audience while social media marketing is done to generate sales and commitment through social engagement. The reason why so many companies are now using social media marketing is that a large percentage of people are now doing most of their purchases online, and people tend to buy items that are recommended by their friends. Customer service Image source: https://media.licdn.com Several years ago, companies used to rely on their websites to attend to their customers. When customers had concerns, they would use the contact form or the live chat messaging feature of a company&#x2019;s website they were visiting. Nowadays, a lot of companies have their own Facebook page because customers now prefer to contact them this way over that of their website. Conclusion Social media is the growing future of the internet; even the largest search engine company, Google, is now going social by heavily investing in Google+. This is because the power of social media is a force to reckon with as it has proven to be a very effective tool for digital marketers. Therefore, businesses should get on board with this trend in social media to take their business to the next level.