The Oude Molen Academy of Maths, Science & Technology in Pinelands is part of the SA Teen Entrepreneur Programme. Here they are posing for a picture after completing their Idea Generation Workshop. From left to right are Shuaib Hashim, Stephan Pretorius (teacher champion), Charles Maisel (Teen Entrepreneur facilitator), Surur Samaai, Ameer Howell, and Lydia Zingoni (founder/director of the programme).&#x201c;Young people need to become self-sustainable in order to support themselves and their families and even their broader communities through employment creation over time,&#x201d; explains Lydia Zingoni, SA Teen Entrepreneur founder/director. &#x201c;2016 saw us testing the programme, as a pilot project in eight high schools across Cape Town. Sponsorship of organisations such as Shoprite, the Sage Foundation, the City of Cape Town, the Rotary Club of Cape Town and the Philippi Economic Development Initiative, made it possible for 34 schools to benefit from our programme this year. &#x201c;At the heart of entrepreneurship is the identification of problems or challenges in our communities or environments and finding creative solutions to turn these challenges into opportunities which can be profitable, which is the kind of culture we want to instil into our young South Africans.&#x201d; Business ventures started Some of the learners who graduated from the 2016 programme have gone on to start up businesses based on what they have learnt and been exposed to in their Entrepreneur Societies. Some of these businesses are receiving mentorship and other support to get their commercial ventures going. One such business, called Soul Mate, hires out catering equipment for events in the community of Langa. Support was given to Soul Mate in the form of developing its corporate brand and the Foundation is also now looking at ways to assist it in promoting the business in order to build its customer base. Interest from other provinces While SA Teen Entrepreneur has received interest in starting Entrepreneur Societies from schools in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, it needs to secure additional sponsorship for a national roll-out. &#x201c;We are also currently in talks with interested persons in the Free State and the Northern Cape about training for teacher champions since they are interested in starting our entrepreneur programme in their schools,&#x201d; concludes Zingoni. A national roll-out is expected in 2018/2019. Participating schools Participating schools include Gardens Commercial High; Oude Molen Academy of Maths, Science & Technology; Langa High; Ikamvalethu High School; Isilimela High School; Mfuleni High School; Cravenby Secondary School; Malibu High School; Goodwood College; Athlone Secondary; Bridgetown High School; Ned Doman High School; Spes Bona High School; Chumisa Combined School; Grassy Park High School; Plumstead High School; Scotsville High School; Maitland Secondary School; Sinethemba High School; DR. Nelson R. Mandela High School; Fezeka Secondary School; LEAP 2 (Philippi); Masibambisane High School; Phakama Secondary School; Sophumelela Secondary School; Vuyiseka Secondary School; Zisukhanyo Secondary School; Avondale Primary; Hermeslaan Primary; Kerria Primary; Parkview Primary; Saxon Sea Primary; and Atlantis High.