Image provided.Two categories this year This year, the awards reflect the exponential growth within the healthcare and wellness industry with two separate yet distinct grand jury panels, comprised of the top creative minds representing the field of healthcare and wellness advertising. One panel will review entries submitted within the 'Healthcare Advertising to the Professional' competition and a second panel will review the entries within 'Healthcare Advertising to the Consumer' competition. This new judging system will provide the most relevant parameters to measure healthcare and wellness creative communications and will address the differences in advertising to each distinctive group, allowing entries to be judged within their own genre with the most up-to-date knowledge of that particular arena. The top scoring entries selected by each jury from each competition will achieve finalist status and will then move on to the final round of judging with the 2017 Global Awards Executive Jury. &#x201c;Using separate juries to evaluate specialised work within the consumer and pharma sectors provide entrants with the assurance that their creative work will be given the utmost attention,&#x201d; said Fran Pollaro, newly appointed executive director of the Global Awards. &#x201c;This inaugural separation of juries allows entries to compete with those submissions within their own competition and the strategic restructuring of categories insures that all creative work entered is provided the proper platform to compete on the world stage and showcase their messaging on behalf of the brand.&#x201d; The newly unveiled roster includes among others, a robust offering of technique categories: 'Use of Media' &#x2013; 'Branded'; 'Digital'; 'Direct & Collateral'; and 'Film'. In addition, the &#x2018;Healthcare Advertising to the Consumer&#x2019; competition now provides 90 categories, a substantial increase over the previous years, and the &#x2018;Healthcare Advertising to the Professional&#x2019; competition offers 83 distinct categories. These restructured categories address the trends within the industry and the current work produced globally. Live judging sessions In addition to the Grand Jury&#x2019;s online judging sessions, the Global Awards organises annual live judging sessions around the globe to review digital based works and collateral materials that support a campaign and which cannot be judged online. These global live sessions are hosted at prominent international healthcare communication agencies and allow jurors to examine in detail multi-paged works including: sales kits, direct mail, brochures, point of purchase displays, and annual reports. The 2017 Global Award winners will be announced on Thursday, 16 November and will be showcased at awards ceremonies in New York City and Sydney. To enter, click here.