Image Supplied Chantel Van Der Merwe, one of the volunteers and co-founders of BRA said that it&#x2019;s been almost a year since the organisation was established and to date, they have rescued, rehabilitated and re-homed a number of dogs already. &#x201c;With the assistance from our sponsors, donors, and members of BRA, we have been able to give many dogs new leases on life. All the hard work and long hours make everything we do so rewarding and worthwhile. We really want to give a voice to these beautiful animals and we are absolutely grateful for everyone who has assisted us. The Golf Day has been in the pipeline for a few months now and we are absolutely excited to present this fund-raising event to the public and we urge everyone to participate,&#x201d; she said. Jolanda Vorster, from BRA said that bulldogs, in particular, are prone to many health-related issues that cannot be established during puppy stages. &#x201c;Being a brachycephalic breed, bulldogs have breathing issues which can lead to heatstroke among other things. The ears, as well as folds found on the nose and other regions, require regular anti-bacterial cleaning to prevent yeast infections and other associated infections. Furthermore, these breeds can ring up quite substantial veterinary bills,&#x201d; she said. BRA commits to seeking justice for bully breeds by bringing backyard breeders and people to book as well as rehabilitating abused and neglected dogs and ultimately seeking new homes for these animals. The organisation urges the public to assist them by reporting abused bully breeds to them as well as sending anonymous tip-offs about puppy-mills and illegal breeders. Image Supplied - Harley Golf Day The Bulldog Rescue Angels Golf Day will take place at the Reading Country Club, Alberton, on 29 June 2017. Costs: &#x2022; 4 ball - R2,000 &#x2022; Corporate sponsorship from R1,000. &#x2022; Corporates who sponsor a hole and enter a 4 ball - R3,000 For anyone who wants to assist, please contact BRA: moc.liamg&#64;slegnaeucsergodllub or visit their Facebook page.