Levergy Directors Clint Paterson, Struan Campbell and Kieren Jacobsen with M&C Saatchi Group Chairman Jerry MpufaneM&C Saatchi PLC has announced a majority stake acquisition of South African sports and entertainment agency Levergy. The deal comes off the back of an exceptional growth path for Levergy, which was founded by Clint Paterson and Struan Campbell in September 2012, and positions the agency to capitalise on a buoyant sport and entertainment industry in South Africa and across the African continent. The deal brings together two best-in-class agencies in the sport and entertainment sector. M&C Saatchi Sport & Entertainment is the record five-time UK Agency of the Year as voted by the BT Sport Industry Awards, whilst Levergy recently took home nine awards, including Agency of the Year, in the Discovery Sport Industry Awards held recently in Johannesburg . Levergy are to become the offering in Africa of M&C Saatchi Sport & Entertainment, furthering their existing network in London, Berlin, Sydney, New York and the most recently launched office in Los Angeles. Levergy, whose client roster includes major local and international brands such as SuperSport, Audi, New Balance and DStv, employs 26 staff across South Africa with offices in Johannesburg and Cape Town. Commenting on the deal was Clint Paterson, CEO of Levergy. &#x201c;To be recognised by the M&C Saatchi Group as the company to represent their sport and entertainment offering in Africa is a proud achievement for us. We have always considered their work and approach as the global benchmark. Over the last few months we have got to know them well, and we are excited at what we can achieve together on the African continent. The M&C Saatchi Group has a strong presence in Africa and we are looking forward to collaborating with them on local opportunities as well.&#x201d; The investment in Levergy continues the M&C Saatchi group&#x2019;s strategy of expanding its global sport and entertainment offering, having seen remarkable success since the launch of the London office in 2004. Says Steve Martin, Global CEO of M&C Saatchi Sport & Entertainment, "We've become great admirers of the Levergy team, their thinking and the work they produce for what is a remarkable roster of clients. We've made the decision to partner with them because we see them as sharing the same dedication to creativity and innovation that has seen us become successful over the years. I have no doubt that they are well placed to do some impactful and standout work in Africa over the foreseeable future&#x201d;.