We catch up with one of them, the dynamic drummer and composer, Tumi Mogorosi and chat about Sanctum Santorium, the collaborative project and album he shares with Gabi Motuba. It also features collaborations with Swiss pianist, Malcolm Braff with whom they will perform at the Standard Bank Jazz Festival in Grahamstown this July. How would you describe Sanctum Sanatorium as a musical project? It is a co-composed musical conversation that posits different standpoints with composers being myself and Gabi Motuba. It deals with ideas of cooperation a co-creation and converging our world views as we come from different parts of the world. Fundamentally, with no prejudices we engage in a dialogue for reimagined ways of being through sound. How important is collaboration in your creative practice? Collaboration for me is the creative process, what I mean is that it takes creativity for creating and as a further means of navigating other encounters, a human perspective of creating moments entails this idea of creativity that might be described as a new, creative moment even in isolation are coming together of different thoughts and processes so the idea of the encounter itself as creating is prominent in the creative aspect. Standard Bank Jazz Festival, Grahamstown celebrates 20 years with powerful lineupSA's oldest jazz festival celebrates landmark anniversary with over 100 jazz innovators from across the world...11 May 2017 People receive vocal music differently to the way they listen to instrumental music. As a musician, how does this voice and drums duet compare to your last duet with a pianist, Pule Pheto, for instance? I think the difference is presence. The voice brings me closer to life and it carries with it memory and hope, a safe space of sorts. The piano duet with Pule Pheto was more an exploration and subverting of specific historic memories in some themes of the music. How did you hook up with Malcolm Braff? We hooked up via a mutual agent from France (Lyon) who then made the official hook up but of course I was acquainted with him and his work prior to this. Remember Malcolm has collaborated with people like the late saxophonist, Zim Ngqawana for instance. How would you describe the experience and process of working with him? It was beautiful. It unfolds with selfless spirit to be with Malcom Braff. I am sure Gabi who is the co-composer would agree. So much warmth, love and deep humanity. He is also a humble and consummate musician. How do you guys plan to deal with the distance and the long time spent apart since the band played together &#x2013; how does it affect the performance? It&#x2019;s all about the unknown - this idea that we come as we are to partake in something bigger than the immediate physicality and ability it demands, but tied to a bigger narrative of reimagining humanity. Are there any special preparations that the band is putting together for the Standard Bank Jazz Festival? What can people in Grahamstown expect? We have a mini tour around the country and Grahamstown is the last stop. So, jazz lovers can expect an intense set of tunes from the album with nuances of light and dark and all the in between... How far will you be pushing Sanctum Sanatorium. Are you guys planning to take on a tour abroad? Yes, we are planning a tour this year but will keep you posted, we need to lock down a couple things. So, watch this space. Otherwise, see you in Grahamstown. Tumi Mogoroshi and Gabi Motuba performs at The Standard Bank Jazz Festival on the following dates: 4 July, DSG Hall at 17:00 5 July, DSG Auditorium at 12:00 Tickets can be purchased by clicking here. www.facebook.com/Tumi-Mogorosi