Structured to showcase young talent within the Western Cape, these young musicians have the opportunity of working with five top South African Jazz musicians in a 10-week mentorship programme. The workshops cover South African Jazz, business management for musicians, and techniques. Time is also devoted to musicians who have their own compositions. Musical Director, Amanda Tiffin (Vocals) will lead the mentors; Camillo Lombard, (Piano), Frank Paco (Drums), Shaun Johannes (Bass) and Marc de Kock (Saxophone).Together they form a Jazz Ensemble to accompany the musicians for an evening of superb South African Jazz. Eleven of the musicians are currently studying at the South African College of Music at UCT. They are Damian Kamineth (19) on Drums, Brathew van Schalkwyk (20) on piano, Bradley Prince (22) Guitar, Keegan Steenkamp (23) Trumpet, Georgia Jones (21) Baritone Saxophone, Evan Froud (21) Alto Saxophone. Vocalists are Jesse Julies (20), Naledi Masilo (20), Thandeka Dladla (22), Daniel van der Walt (21) and Stephen de Souza (21) Bass Guitar. Drummer Dane Paris (18) is at Groote Schuur High School, Timothy Ehrenreich (17) Guitar is at Mondale High and at the Cape Music Institute (CMI) and Dehanr Kiewiets (19) a vocalist taking a gap year to perform and grow her passion. Stepping stone, providing opportunities Marlene le Roux, CEO of the Artscape Theatre Centre explains: &#x201c;Since the Youth Jazz Festival was established in 2003, the focus of the programme has remained dedicated to providing skills development within the Jazz genre. This enables young Jazz musicians to take the experience forward into their careers and educate others in the process.&#x201d; &#x201c;The Artscape Youth Jazz Festival has become a stepping stone that provides opportunities and access to significant role players. We are indeed honoured to showcase these young musicians and promise an evening of exceptional quality Jazz for all music lovers.&#x201d; Tickets cost R80 and available through Artscape Dial-a-Seat 021 421 7695, Computicket, Shoprite and Checkers outlets or Computicket online. For more information contact, Wilmie Kritzinger on 021 410 9210 or on email: az.oc.epacstra&#64;1namjorp .