Titled Tourism Marketing Indaba 2017, the event is a platform for marketing managers, social media, PR and communication professionals in the travel and tourism industry to come together and discover innovative ways of reaching and connecting with the modern travellers. &#x201c;The digital revolution has transformed travel shopping as travel research findings show that travellers are relying on the internet for ideas on which places to visit, where to stay and make bookings. This means that only those brands utilising inbound marketing methodologies will benefit. It is sad that most marketers are still using pre-smartphone revolution tactics in their campaigns and this inevitably leads to failure. Fortunately, the best practices for effective marketing will be unpacked at the indaba,&#x201d; said Joseph Neusu, Business Unit Head of Guerilla Marketing. The speaker line-up is made up of some of the freshest and leading digital marketing professionals who have a strong understanding of the travel and tourism marketing ecosystem. Fundamentally, Tourism Marketing Indaba 2017 is not like any other digital marketing workshop as it will not dispense generic one-size-fits-all solutions. What makes this indaba unique is that the strategies that will be shared are specifically for travel and tourism marketers and address the industry&#x2019;s biggest pain points and challenges. Additionally, attendees will also learn how to leverage data to craft performance-based campaigns that enable them to be visible at all stages of the travel shopping journey. &#x201c;By attending, travel and tourism marketers will receive insights, information and action items that will enable them to hit the ground running and execute winning campaigns straight away. Tourism Marketing Indaba 2017 is all about improving marketing results and ultimately, boosting revenue for brands,&#x201d; remarked Joseph. Topics that will be covered at the indaba are: How to use Wi-Fi as a marketing tool Building an effective social media strategy and tactical plan The science of a high-converting website Effective online review management to drive bookings Email marketing &#x2013; How to connect with your guests and turn them into your brand ambassadors Analytics and Reports: Benefits of understanding the performance of your digital campaigns </li></li></li></li></li>Attendees will not have to break the bank to attend Tourism Marketing Indaba 2017 as the cost is only R900 per person. Early bird specials and group discounts are pegged at R800 per person. For more information visit events.guerillamarketing.co.za or contact Didimalo on 011 704 2641.