She&#x2019;s already a familiar face on the social and lifestyle television scene, but will be adding soapie star to her resume soon. Heart FM presenter Tracey Lange will be gracing our screens on the popular Afrikaans kykNET soapie, Suidooster, on Thursday, 8 June 2017, at 6pm. Lange who hosts the 9-12 show on Heart FM, the number one commercial radio station in the Western Cape*, will be playing a radio host who discovers a new talent in the fictional suburb of Ruitersbosch. On Monday, 16 November 2015, South African TV history was made when Suidooster, the first soapie to be set and filmed in the Western Cape went to air on Afrikaans DStv channel kykNET. The production features some of South Africa&#x2019;s top acting talent including Denise Newman, Cedwyn Joel, Abduraghmaan Adams and Marcel Van Heerden to name a few. Co-incidentally Lange broadcast her show from the studio on launch day creating awareness around the production. Lange is no stranger to the television world, she has been hosting the Afrikaans lifestyle show Bravo! for a number of years. Lange says the role was crafted for her. &#x201c;I absolutely love the show and have done extensive interviews with cast members. Because I love showcasing local talent on my radio show, I was asked to play myself hosting a show on Heart FM. I don&#x2019;t want to give too much away as we&#x2019;d like for viewers to tune in, but I discover a lovely new talent in the fictional community of Ruitersbosch.&#x201d; Lange&#x2019;s debut appearance takes place on Thursday, 8 June 2017, followed by two more episodes on Monday 12 and Tuesday 13 June 2017. Publicity Manager for Suidooster and Hombrew Films Wilmer Miller says casting Lange was a no brainer. "Tracey makes no secret that she is a big fan of Suidooster and therefore it was so exciting to include her in such a special episode.&#x201d; Asked if this could possibly become something permanent, Lange gave her well known infectious laugh and said everyone will have to wait and see.