The new Subaru Global Platform has been designed to work in tandem with the new FB 2.0-litre Boxer engine. It's a direct injection unit that is now 12kg lighter than the previous engine. The new engine produces 115kW at 6000rpm and 196Nm of torque 4200rpm. Gearbox All SA-spec vehicles will feature the upgraded Lineartronic CVT gearbox that features a 7-speed manual mode with shifter paddles behind the steering wheel. The gearbox too is 7.8kg lighter. Standard on the new Impreza is the Subaru symmetrical all-wheel drive system through which the power is distributed to all four wheels for maximum grip, stability, and performance. The suspension systems have been re-engineered and, when combined with a lower centre of gravity, the result is reduced body roll by 50% compared to the previous Impreza model. Safety The standard features of vehicle dynamics control and symmetrical full-time all-wheel drive are said to ensure driving confidence in every situation. Standard on the launch model 2.0i-S is the inclusion of active torque vectoring for more control during cornering and collision avoidance actions. Additional safety features available at launch are steering responsive headlights; high beam assist, and Subaru rear/side vehicle detection which includes blind spot detection, lane change assist and rear cross traffic alert. Steering responsive headlights turn in the direction of the corner as per steering inputs, spreading more light across more of the corner for safer driving. Pricing At launch (June 2017) the Subaru Impreza 2.0i-S Premium CVT is available for R399,000. A new five-year/150,000km warranty period is standard, specifically for the new Impreza. The three-year/75,000km standard maintenance plan is upgradable to a five-year/150,000km period at a subsidised rate to the customer. In October 2017, the 2.0i-S will be joined by two additional Impreza models: The 2.0i Lineartronic CVT standard grade model and the EyeSight-equipped 2.0i-S ES Lineartronic CVT which will be the flagship of the range.