If you are looking to appear on the first page and as the top option in search results options, you'll need to have the commitment and hard work to get you to a point of attracting new clients. It is not just about having keywords or stunts that attract attention. Rather, it requires long-term solutions to ensure that the page lives up to its original and real potential and not just another fish in the ocean. SEO incorporates both the technical and creative elements that are required to improve rankings, driving traffic and increasing awareness on a particular product or piece in search engines. SEO marketing SEO marketing, on the other hand, is an internet marketing strategy that usually involves the promotion of websites by helping them have their visibility increased in search engines results pages. This is primarily done through paid advertising. Search Engine Marketing (SEM) may incorporate some websites which then adjusts and rewrites website content and the site's architecture. This goes a long way in ensuring a higher ranking in different search engines' search result pages, thereby enhancing the pay-per-click listings. Online marketing is one essential part of driving traffic and potential clients to your online business. Having your business or online market kept on top requires vital online marketing strategies and should also include search engine optimisation, pay-per-click and social media advertising. Pay-per-click advertising is a type of inbound marketing that is used to promote businesses through adverts that are displayed alongside organic search results on search engines' results pages, for example, Google. Each of the ads is triggered by the search for a particular keyword that is related to what the advert is promoting. The advertiser only pays when a user clicks on the ad and visits the clients' websites. This gives birth to the "pay-per-click" name. Search engine optimisation The search engine optimisation, on the other hand, aims at increasing traffic's visibility to a particular website by realising higher rankings in search engine results. The process of optimisation aims at improving your website and making it as attractive and eye-catching as possible. The more search engine-friendly a website is, the more likely it is for it to appear higher in the organic search results when one searches for related keywords. SEM, in full, search engine marketing, is the general term that is used to describe search engine optimisation and pay-per-click as a single marketing approach. Most companies go for both strategies to get immediate results and a long-term method. This is ultimately considered as a complete search marketing campaign that will ensure any business booms if the best steps are followed. Different regions have different search engines focusing on them, with each of them having different signals. Having a local firm advertising on would be the best way to understand the specificities of each search engine. For instance, to enter the Chinese market, it is important to understand how Google Hong Kong and Baidu work to make the websites compliant to these particular search engines. Different companies can help you to get higher rankings such as Get Clicks which provides services such SEO and online marketing in Hong Kong. By making sure that you are using the different channels to communicate with you targets as well as using the right search engines to reach them will ensure you better online performances.