MSC Graduate Institute is the newest division of MSC Education Holdings, which was established in 1991 in response to the increasing demand for affordable, high quality and relevant post-school education and training that enhances the employability of young people. The newest brand joins the group&#x2019;s Artisan Academy, Business College and Enterprise Solutions. MSC Education Holding&#x2019;s CEO, Carol Taggart said, &#x201c;The actualisation of the first degree is a significant milestone in the 26 year history of the group. &#x201c;Traditionally we have focused on the further education and training band in business and artisan training but with the increasing number of school leavers and shortage of space at universities, we decided to enter the higher education arena to address this demand. &#x201c;This also gives an opportunity to MSC graduates to gain access to a degree within the same group. Many young people and working individuals are denied access to study due to accessibility issues. MSC has addressed this by providing an online experience on a dynamic electronic learning platform enabling learners to study wherever they are. Support is a differentiating factor as online tutors have one-on-one interaction with their respective learners, in the form of academic and moral support. The online model includes value, innovation, quality and fun and is designed to provide the knowledge as well as the skills required by business.&#x201d; The MSC Graduate Institute is ideally suited to working professionals who do not require a great deal of physical contact time with a campus, as well as school leavers who prefer to study in a more independent manner. Students will however still have full time support and interaction with fellow students and educators online. The programmes are intended to be as practical as possible, harnessing skills essential to the business environment (such as time management, problem solving, creative thinking and technical skills). Additionally, the degree places merit on work-integrated learning, which requires students to apply traditional knowledge gained from learning to a specific or simulated work environment. For more information, go to www.mscgi.co.za or call +27 (0) 11 4014 1381.