Based on the feedback from customers at Food Lover's Market in the Western Cape, the company decided to roll out the characters to the rest of Food Lover's Market stores in South Africa and Namibia and introduce the Goodness Gang Minis to FreshStop at Caltex stores nationwide. The Goodness Gang is a range of fruit and vegetable plushies, consisting of eight characters. It aims to educate and promote healthy eating amongst Grades RR-3 learners in a fun and interactive way. The characters are Olly Orange, Sally Strawberry, Benny Banana, Pumi Pea, Bongi Blueberry, Manny Mushroom, Betty Broccoli and Adam Apple. They will be available at Food Lover's Market stores in all provinces in South Africa (except the Western Cape where the campaign ran last year) and Namibia. Promoting healthy eating To reinforce the message of healthy eating and nutrition, the Goodness Gang mascots will be visiting stores and schools over the next few months; and selected schools will be visited by the Goodness Gang puppet show. The campaign will run from 12 June to 12 November this year. The last day to redeem Goodness Gang plushies will be on 26 November 2017. Customers, spending a minimum of R50 in Food Lovers Market stores, earn one sticker. A Goodness Gang plushie can be redeemed once the collector card has been filled with 70 stickers, but customers can also buy a character after collecting 30 stickers for only R59.99. Alternatively, the Goodness Gang characters can be bought outright at the full retail price of R199.99 each. Sister brand, FreshStop, will also be introducing its own range of Goodness Gang Mini characters at all FreshStop at Caltex stores countrywide on 12 June 2017. Customers need to spend a minimum of R30 to earn a sticker. Once 50 stickers are collected, a Goodness Gang Mini can be redeemed. Shoppers will also have the option of collecting 25 stickers and buying a Goodness Gang Mini at a reduced price of R29.99 or at the full retail price of R89.99. Goodness Gang Minis are available at FreshStop as of 12 June 2017. The Food Lover&#x2019;s Market and Freshstop Goodness Gang promotions are independent of each other and stickers cannot be shared between the two offers. To find out more about the characters and activities in your area, visit the Goodness Gang microsite.