If you&#x2019;re one of those brave and innovative brides who are embracing a winter wedding, you need to grab a copy of the winter issue of South African Wedding Inspirations, on sale from 12 June at retailers nationwide. In this issue, we look at this chilly but sensational season&#x2019;s most exciting trends and show you how to embrace bold themes and utterly fabulous fynbos for a truly memorable wedding celebration. Our beautiful cover girl is real bride Colette Russell Smith, with her husband, Michael. See all the details of her drop-dead gorgeous wedding inside the magazine, including the spectacular detachable train on her Kobus Dippennaar-designed gown. And for more great gown ideas, turn to the fashion pages to see all the hottest dress trends of 2017. From bohemian glamour to a show-stopping Game of Thrones-inspired wedding theme and a modern update to the classic all-white wedding, the pages are teeming with picture-inspiration overload. Floral genius DP Ferreira shows us his take on gorgeous fynbos in his Afro Botanical theme, and if you want some cheering up in these cold, dark months, perhaps a dreamy watercolour-inspired wedding is just what the doctor ordered. With beautiful pictures comes sparking advice. If you&#x2019;re wondering what the proper invitation etiquette is, wonder no more &#x2013; we&#x2019;ve got a comprehensive guide to who cracks the nod (and who doesn&#x2019;t!). Just starting your planning? Read our savvy guide to picking the right wedding vendors to work with. And if you don&#x2019;t quite understand why you need a theme for your wedding, you simply have to read our hot advice from wedding planners in the know about why it makes such a difference to your big day. This exceptional title, brought to you by The Wedding Group, once again presents the very best of the South African wedding industry for brides to enjoy. With glamorous styled shoots, sensational reception ideas, to-die-for bridal fashion and a host of informative and entertaining hints, tips and planning ideas, the magazine is a must-read for every bride-to-be. On sale from Monday, 12 June, this issue has all the info you need to plan a wedding from beginning to end. South African Wedding Inspirations is not only a visual feast, it&#x2019;s got all your wedding essentials between the covers. Don&#x2019;t miss out! Available nationwide at Pick n Pay stores, CNA, Exclusive Books, PNA, Clicks and Dis-Chem, as well as selected SPAR supermarkets and independent retailers. Visit weddinginspirations.co.za for more information.