Camera adventures The videos are shot by Sygic Traveller Michal G lik, who has been traveling and recording the videos for months. Currently, he is about to visit Paris, London, and Amsterdam; later this year he will visit the United States. Michal G lik G lik has spent 140 days altogether traveling the world and shooting 360 videos from over 500 places in 22 countries. &#x201c;I always find the best spot for the camera, start recording and then go away and hide somewhere. But there are also videos in which people can see me, for example, the one from the Hong Kong Peak Tram or on a boat in Cambodia. I had to be super careful with the camera while shooting the Indian Holi festival, where people throw coloured powders at each other. But that was nothing in comparison with the situation when the camera with six lenses was stolen by a monkey,&#x201d; says G lik while describing his adventures. Putting tech to work The GoPro Omni panoramic video technology uses six synchronised cameras to shoot 3D videos. The individual 2D videos are merged in post-production, creating 360 videos. Sygic Travel made all the videos available on YouTube, but more importantly in their Android and iOS apps. &#x201c;In the Sygic Travel app, people can watch 360 videos of places added to their trips that are marked by a 3D arrow play symbol. The best way to enjoy the videos is to use a virtual reality headset. They are compatible with the Samsung Gear VR headset and Google Cardboard V1 and V2 together with the Sygic Travel VR app,&#x201d; says Luk &#x0161; Nevos d, Sygic Travel CEO. The videos are also available in the Sygic Travel web planner, but only with Google Chrome. All you need to do is to type &#x201c;360&#x201d; into the search box and click on the &#x201c;360 Content&#x201d; button. You will see all the places around the world for which virtual reality is available. Enhancing the travel experience Sygic Travel (formerly Tripomatic) provides the most relevant information and services to help travellers research, plan and book their trips. More than half a million travellers use their web planner and apps every month. Sygic Travel is dedicated to enhancing the travel experience for people at every stage in the journey, from the initial vacation inspiration, planning, through to exploring new lands after arrival. List of all cities for which 360 videos are available currently: Dubai, Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Agra, Hong Kong, Siem Reap, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Bali, Sydney, Melbourne, Delhi, Athens, Istanbul, Cairo, Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Betlehem, Prague, Vienna, Barcelona, Valencia, Madrid, Granada, Seville, Marrakesh, Gran Canaria, Porto, and Lisbon.