As a part of the prize, M velcare will be participating at Seedstars Summit, taking place in Switzerland in April 2018, a weeklong training programme with the opportunity to meet the other +75 winners, as well as investors and mentors from around the world. The final day of the Summit will be dedicated to pitching in front of an audience of 1000 attendees, with the possibility of winning up to the $500,000 equity investment. Karingana Wa Karingana Textiles, a platform aiming to revolutionise the African textile market by offering brands customised prints produced on demand, came second and Alltrack, a cross-platform tracking software that allows you to control your car and prevents it from being stolen, grabbed third place. The other startups invited to pitch were Supevy, CrimeDown, Dream Solutions Enterprise, Fakul, Kharin Lda, Olenvo, LavaMe, Side, and Tech4Kids Academy. &#x201c;We are extremely proud of all the startups that competed in the previous edition. BlackBox TV represented Mozambique well during the Global Summit and was nominated for the most innovative startup. But also runner-up IzyShop, which managed to gain significant traction. We see clearly that the quality of entrepreneurs improves every year and that the ecosystem is growing due to so many committed partners. In addition, we are really seeing the ecosystem come together and more collaboration between the ecosystem players. We cannot wait to come back,&#x201d; says Claudia Makadristo, regional manager for Africa. Regional Summit to take place in Mozambique Seedstars World also announced during the event that the African Regional Summit will be held in Mozambique this year, and bring local winners from over 20 African countries at the end of the year for a series of workshops, panels and discussions on technology and entrepreneurship in Africa. Continuing on its world tour of startup scenes in emerging markets and fast-growing startup scenes, Seedstars World&#x2019;s next stop is South Africa&#x2019;s finals in Johannesburg at the Standard Bank Auditorium, to select the most promising startup in South Africa. The winners from the Johannesburg and Cape Town satellite events, as well as three wildcard startups, will be invited to compete at the grand final on 29 June 2017 to become the national winner of South Africa. However, startups from across the country are encouraged to apply. Applications are still open and startups can apply here.