Newly launched transport service, Cape Comoot, offers one-way trips from Green Market Square to Cape Point or Franschhoek which means you and your buddies can enjoy the fun responsibly without breaking the bank. dolgachov via 123RF Co-founder of Cape Comoot, Martin Bo Nielsen, who also brought us Cape Town Free Walking Tours, says, "Reasonably priced access to some of the Cape's most iconic destinations is something that the tourist industry in the Western Cape has been seriously lacking. We want to encourage Cape Town residence to engage in their own sense of adventure and explore some of these previously perceived 'too far away' destinations like Cape Point and Franschhoek. People need to realise there's a lot to do in these spots and they are about more than Fynbos and Wine. The grub is good too." Before you set out on your big journey you can grab a New York-style brekkie on Bree Street from Max Bagels. Fairly new but no less delicious, the shop serves bagels filled with both classic and gourmet toppings. Grab a breakfast bagel, a cup of freshly roasted coffee, and you're good to go. Open from 8am, this quick stop means that you will have plenty of time for a stroll to Greenmarket Square where the Cape Comoot umbrellas can be easily spotted. Nature guys at Cape Point Cape Point is steeped in history and ghost ships disguised as funny little rail carts, so depending on your preferences here are some of the best activities in and around the south. Remember that Cape Point forms part of SA Parks so there will be an entrance fee of R135 per adult. The 'Flying Dutchman' Funicular is named after the famous ghost ship. These little carts choo-choo your pals all the way from the car park up an incline through dense fynbos to the upper lighthouse, which is one of the best spots to visit at Cape Point. Hiking If you have some pep in your step and lazing around on a tram is not your style, rest not! There are many short but striking trails in the area. Food and souvenirs If you would like a memento or proof that you have been to Cape Point for the women back at home, there are souvenir shops and a takeaway place with sandwiches/pizzas. There is also a sit-down restaurant with a great view of False Bay. Be aware of bad@ss baboons! There are baboons in the area and they like to steal food a lot. So, don't eat in the open fynbos or you might find yourself in an argy-bargy over a chocolate bar with a guy who has bigger teeth. Baboon 'photobombs' a beautiful landscape photo in Cape Point, South Africa pic.twitter.com/byXENWfSdu&#x2014; Documentary Tube (@DocumentaryTube) April 15, 2015 While we can all appreciate the stunning beauty of a place like Cape Point, some guys are not nature guys and that's why Cape Comoot also gives customers a route to Franschhoek. Wine and dine or beer and baskets, this little town packs a big punch. It's tram time The Franschhoek Wine Tram hop-on-hop-off tour is one of the best ways to discover that there is a lot more to Franschhoek than people think. A mix of tram and tram-buses takes you on a loop of stops allowing you and your bros freedom of choice. Each tram line is colour coded and ticket prices vary, so check out the website for more details. Manning up in Franschhoek There is absolutely nothing wrong with wine-ing - after all Franschhoek is one of the world's most famous wine districts - but did you know that there's beer there too? Tuk Tuk Microbrewery (which is accessible by tram) offers some of the best microbrews in the province. Whether you're a Weis fan or prefer a good pale ale this stop will change how you view an ice-cold pint. The man wine-xercise If you like a bit of exercise between activity spots, it really is a lovely town to hop on a bicycle and get in some cardio. Finding a bike is easy - all you need to do is go to the bike rental shop which is a three-minute walk up the road towards the direction the bus came in. It's on the same side as the tram ticket office. In the bicycle shop, you can get a map of the area and recommendations on which wine farms are closest to town.