gajus 123RF.comThere is a network of stakeholders, entrepreneurs and groups that have an interest in the development, management and marketing of Meetings Incentives Conferences & Events (MICE) sector, as well as an interest in the creative arts. The support, commitment and cooperation of these stakeholders for long-term growth of tourism sector in Bokone-Bophirima is essential. This platform will enable the sector and all participants to consider working together, sharing success stories, being educated on current opportunities and addressing challenges of the creative and MICE sectors. Tourism in Bokone-Bophirima can be improved by reinforcing the arts, culture and heritage sector and look at it as an economic growth sector with large-scale employment. Together, we need to be part of the large-scale interventions aimed at optimising growth and the employment potential of the tourism and creative sector. There are many government programmes that have been designed to strengthen and grow the creative and tourism sector but how much access and knowledge do entrepreneurs within the sector have about them? A platform for interaction The Bokone-Bophirima Creative and Hospitality Forum must be used as a platform for interaction that will encourage young people to advance tourism business projects that can promote the province and bring about economic growth and employment creation. The event is expected to be attended by various participants from the creative and tourism industry, ranging from event companies, restaurant owners, chefs, filmmakers, photographers, artists (visual and performing), deco companies, hotel/guest-house owners, tour operators, crafters, fashion designers, models, media, PR and marketing companies, travel agencies, venues and hospitality companies Activities scheduled include interaction with decision makers, networking sessions, business workshop and dialogues, panel discussion, exhibition, wine tasting. Speakers and panellists will feature ministers, MECs, mayors and municipal managers, CEOs, diplomatic bodies, entrepreneurs and media personalities. For more information, click here.