Blacksmith Band and Jenny & the Jameses On Saturday, 10 June 2017 at 8pm you can experience a double-bill evening of Acoustic music with the Blacksmith Band and Jenny & the Jameses. Blacksmith music style has drifted towards Pure Acoustic, and their repertoire contains Bluegrass, Country, Gospel, English, Irish and Scottish Traditional, A Capella and Roman Rap, Modern and Ancient Pop, Hard Rock and Boeremusiek &#x2013; so no real focus then, but a reflection of a band that has been going for well over 45 years. Jenny & the Jameses is a highly mobile and flexible band, their laid-back and fun playing style, combined with a repertoire of a mixture of pensive folk songs and high-octane jigs and reels, makes every performance an engaging intimate rollercoaster. Current band members are Neil Harvey (guitar, mandolin, vocals), Nielen Prinsloo (banjo, mandolin, bass, vocals), James Harvey (accordion, harp, whistles, bass, vocals), James Hall (fiddle, vocals). Emile Minnie On Saturday, 24 June at 8pm there is a fundraising performance for Pads Animal Welfare, featuring South African star of the cabaret stage, Emile Minnie, who will delight with an hour of top class entertainment. Come and see the captivating Emile Minnie light up the stage with his passion and energy. Emile&#x2019;s &#x201c;Nagmusiek&#x201d; album was nominated for a Sama for &#x2018;Best Alternative Afrikaans album.&#x2019; Emile was a runner-up in the Huisgenoot/You Songwriting Competition, and he was a finalist in the World Song Contest. Emile will be promoting his new CD &#x201c;15 Onvergeetlike Jare&#x201d;, a collection of Emile&#x2019;s most beautiful and most popular songs. The show will also include French love songs, golden oldies and even a dash of rock & roll. Chris Chameleon Chris Chameleon will be performing at the Showroom Theatre on Saturday, 1 July 2017 at 8pm. It&#x2019;s been six years since Chris Chameleon last released a completely self-penned Afrikaans album. With the release of the much anticipated &#x2018;Jy en Ek en Ek en Jy&#x2019; followers of this icon of South African music can get their fix again. The album is both musically and lyrically his most adventurous to date and he will be touring to all corners of South Africa with this collection of new work. Elvis Blue On Friday, 14 July 2017, Elvis Blue will entertain his fans with well-loved favourites as well as songs from his latest Afrikaans album, Die Brug. With an average of 133 live performances a year, 3 platinum and 1 gold selling albums and a long list of top 10 hits to his credit, Elvis Blue is reckoned to be one of the most successful artists in South Africa. He remains a rare breed in his ability to straddle both English and Afrikaans music genres with ease and relevance. With his unique blend of charisma and authenticity Elvis&#x2019;s shows are known for not only the perfect blend of well-known original hits and new music, but also for his comical and often whimsical story telling that sweeps audiences along in a journey that is both personal and entertaining. 3 Tons of Fun 3 Tons of Fun have become synonymous with great fun and explosive party and will take Prince Albert by storm on Saturday, 29 July 2017 at 8pm. The group was formed 10 years ago when we realised that there was a calling for real woman to show off their sexiness an incredible voices, and show the world that not only slender woman can be sexy. Much as they love entertaining dignitaries, they love welcoming new fans and groupies &#x2013; &#x201c;Tonners&#x201d; as they are called, at each and every show. 3 Tons of Fun released their debut album in 2015 entitled &#x201c;Larger than Life.&#x201d; Saxy Sthe (Nontokozo Sithembile Mfuphi), Beautifull Bee (Bulelwa Sakayi) and Mysterious Michelle (Michelle Thomas) have an incredible rapport together on stage, and no matter what the event is they will get the audience dancing. This year the girls will be celebrating their 10th birthday, and they look forward to living up to their motto, &#x201c;I choose to be happy&#x201d; and imparting on to others, though their love of music and their fans! Although repairs have begun on the flood damages at the Swartberg Pass, you can still experience the tranquillity of the Great Karoo during the day with magnificent scenic routes through the Meiringspoort pass to de Rust and Oudsthoorn, and still visit the Swart Berg Pass from the Oudsthoorn entrance. At night, it&#x2019;s time for action at the Showroom Theatre with a great live show line-up for June and July, as well as exclusive films screened by the Movie Club on Wednesday evenings and Saturday mornings. Bookings for The Showroom Theatre in Prince Albert can be done online by clicking here or you can visit the theatre during your next visit to the village. The Showroom is open for visitors on Mon, Wed, Thurs, and Friday from 9am until 4pm, as well as Saturday mornings from 9am until 12pm. You can also call 023 5411 563 for more information on the shows as well as places to stay in Prince Albert.