This lively winter celebration, which is hosted at various wineries in the Rawsonville, Slanghoek, Goudini, and Breede River areas, will serve you complimentary cups of steaming homemade country soup accompanied by a glass of red or dessert wines. Soetes & Soup is a showcase of the Breedekloof&#x2019;s finest wines and hearty homemade soups&#x2013; once again affirming why this valley is fast becoming known as &#x201c;South Africa&#x2019;s most generous wine route&#x201d;. Highlights over the festival weekend include live entertainment by various artists, including pop-country trio Black Byrd at Deetlefs Wine Estate, the popular Klipwerf Boereorkes at Opstal Estate, and Viljoen Retief & Twee at Merwida; a five-course Soetes & Soup pairing dinner with celebrated chef, Pete Goffe-Wood at Bosjes; traditional country cuisine, including homemade soups, roosterkoeke and sosaties; hiking trails; various stalls; and plenty of entertainment for the children. What to expect: The festival extends across the Breedekloof Wine Valley, which includes Rawsonville, Slanghoek, Goudini, and Breede River areas. Each of the participating wineries will be showcasing their award-winning red and dessert wines as well as offering a variety of entertainment. Highlighting their generous country hospitality, they&#x2019;ll present a complimentary cup of signature soup and some enticing pairings. Don&#x2019;t miss the Shiraz ice cream or the cupcake and wine pairing at Kirabo, the chocolate soup and port tasting at Bergsig, the giant Blackjack game at uniWines Vineyards, the Opstal Vars market at Opstal Estate, craft beer and gin tasting at Stofberg Family Vineyards or the Hanepoot jelly shooters at Deetlefs. But if soup doesn&#x2019;t quite cut it, many of the properties will offer comforting pancakes, burgers, roosterkoeke and more. Five reasons to visit the Breedekloof Wine ValleyA common misconception about the Breedekloof Wine Valley is that it's only home to large-scale wine producing cooperatives. True, Breedekloof is one of the largest wine producing areas in the Cape, however, this wine region offers so much more than that...By Ruth Cooper 14 Nov 2016 Tickets Festival passes cost R150 a person and can only be bought at Webtickets. Your ticket will include a tasting glass, a soup mug and a coupon booklet. Soups and wine tastings at participating wineries are included in the ticket price. No tickets will be available for sale on the weekend &#x2013; only a limited number of tickets are available online. Please note this is a self-drive, decentralised event so responsible consumption is advised. To this end, there is also a designated driver&#x2019;s pass for R100 per person, which only includes your soup mug and coupon booklet, no wine. Wineries will be offering discounts on their wines over the weekend, giving you a great excuse to stock up for the winter. Accommodation facilities are offering you a free night&#x2019;s stay when you book two nights&#x2019; accommodation. For a full festival programme and information on accommodation facilities, visit the Breedekloof website or call 023 349 1791. Date: 21 July and 22 July 2017 Time: 9am &#x2013;4pm Venue: Various venues in the Breedekloof Wine Valley Cost: R150 per person (no ticket sales at wineries) R100 per person (designated driver & U/18) Phone: +27 (0) 23 349 1791 or email: moc.foolkedeerb&#64;ofni .