Izak Petersen, chairman of the SA REIT AssociationPetersen is CEO of Dipula Income Fund and has extensive experience in the financial services environment, spanning investment banking, asset management, and property. He has also served on various industry bodies over the years including the South African Property Owners Association (SAPOA), Association for the Advancement of Black Accountants of Southern Africa (ABASA) Western Cape and Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (ABSIP). &#x201c;REITs have consistently delivered inflation-beating returns over the long term with quality income streams and lower risk. Over time, they have outperformed physical property by a long shot and outclassed other sectors on the JSE,&#x201d; says Petersen. &#x201c;REITs offer investors regular income distributions as well as long-term capital appreciation.&#x201d; He adds that SA REITs have an important role to play in property ownership in South Africa. Own a piece of the pie &#x201c;Owning Sandton City or the V&A Waterfront may be out of reach, but you can own a piece of the pie by investing in REITs. It is a very accessible investment underpinned by physical property assets,&#x201d; he says. Petersen highlights that innovation in the sector has seen its investors multiplying money much faster. He points to the gearing prospects created by the dual share structures that some REITs offer as being one example of this. Petersen takes over from the association&#x2019;s former chairman, Laurence Rapp who is CEO of Vukile Property Fund. &#x201c;We thank Rapp for his meaningful contribution to the SA REIT Association over the past three years. The sector has advanced significantly under his leadership,&#x201d; says Petersen. He sees the sector continuing to play a key role as a leader in transforming the South Africa economy, which speaks to its sustainability. Also, the association will continue to build positive partnerships to ensure it remains at the forefront of good governance, innovation and international best practice. Another important area of impact for the association is the continuing education of the retail investment market about the benefits of REITs and how they work. Petersen says: &#x201c;We are open to linking with broker bodies, asset managers and institutions to penetrate even deeper into the investment community and get more people to understand why an investment in REITs is a good investment.&#x201d;