 visivasnc via 123RFAccording to technical services consultant at Prominent Paints, Herman Rabe, rather than limit training to one province, the academy&#x2019;s instructors travel to any other region, or even African country, to deliver the popular education and training. Further bolstering its reach, the company has expanded its training services with the inclusion of application training and contractors evenings for students at Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) and The Design School Southern Africa (DSSA). Course details A free service &#x2013; anyone from paint contractors, artisans, and entrepreneurs, to homeowners, and DIY enthusiasts &#x2013; can register for the three modules that cover Paint Technology and Terminology, Product Knowledge and Painting of various substrates. A course which spans two full days, all delegates receive certificates of attendance. Once learners have completed these introductory courses, they are free to enrol for the online eLearning course. A certificated course &#x2013; learners also receive their acknowledgement from Prominent Paints once they have completed and successfully passed the eLearning module. &#x201c;The courses are both theoretical and practical and the introductory modules cover everything from the paint make up, to calculating the Dry Film Thickness (DFT) and the influence the Micro and Macro climates will have on paint when applied. The fundamentals of surface preparation are covered extensively, as is choosing the right paint system for various substrates,&#x201d; says Rabe. &#x201c;More than that, delegates will learn how to effectively resolve customer complaints ensuring they become a paint specialist who can easily and confidently identify and solve paint problems of any magnitude.&#x201d; The company believes that DIY should be about more than just paint; it&#x2019;s about responsible and strong leadership, innovative paint solutions, real partnerships and a passion for doing the right thing. For more, contact 0861 77 66 46 / email az.oc.stniaptnenimorp&#64;ymedaca .