A true giant of the South African music industry Andy Innes embarks on the final tour with Johnny Clegg starting in Cape Town this Friday, 30 June 2017 for two nights and moving to Johannesburg and Durban all before the end of July 2017. Andy has worked as a session musician on various recordings in addition to the six albums he has recorded on for Johnny Clegg. He has also worked with Jackson Browne, Dave Stewart, Peter Gabriel, Ernest Ranglin, I Muvrini and several other international artists. He splits his time between performance and production and has had his own recording label, Khangula Music. Andy is also one of the producers who worked with Johnny Clegg on tracks for the HUMAN album. What does music mean to you? It&#x2019;s my life and the soundtrack of it. Any funny moments on stage? In Savuka, we were performing at the State Theatre and during a dance routine (where we all did a unison dance move in a row while playing a song) one of the performers at the far end (who shall remain nameless for those who weren&#x2019;t there) stumbled and fell. The rest of us were moving towards that person and two other people tripped over the first performer and landed in a jumble of arms, legs, cables and guitars in the center of the stage. Johnny leapt sure-footed over the catastrophe like a mountain goat and continued performing without a hitch. Your heroes? Nelson Mandela and Christoph Kemper who invented an amp profiling system that changed my performing life and saved me a fortune. Which living person do you admire most and why? Johnny Clegg. He&#x2019;s remained true to his ideals and faced all hardships with stoic courage. He&#x2019;s also been a standard-bearer and role model for a truly unitary South African identity. What is your most treasured possession? My Duesenberg Starplayer TV Custom guitar. It&#x2019;s your round, what are you drinking? Caipirinha. The song you wished you wrote? This week? Ralph Vaughan Williams: The Lark Ascending. Dream gig to do? Royal Albert Hall with Johnny Clegg! (Been there, done that! Big smile!) What makes you stand out? My lack of hair combined with above-average height. Any nicknames? Magwaza. If you were not a musician what would you do? Earn lots of money. Pick five words to describe yourself? Musical, loyal, passionate, omnivorous, peach. Five desert island discs? Friday Night in San Francisco - McLachlan, Di Meola, De Lucia Soro &#x2013; Salif Keita Fantaisie Militaire &#x2013; Alain Bashung Ten Summoner&#x2019;s Tales - Sting Peace Beyond Passion &#x2013; Meshell Ndegeocello What song changed your life? Impi &#x2013; Juluka. It opened my eyes to the depth of our culture here and got me started on the path to learning Zulu. I was about 12 years old and I wore out the vinyl listening to it on headphones (the whole African Litany album actually). I used to pay a man who lived down the road from us to translate the lyrics for me and teach me Zulu. As it turns out, he was from Malawi and his Zulu wasn&#x2019;t that great, so I had to hit reset later, but he was very enthusiastic. What is your favourite word? Disingenuous or nincompoop. Often best when used in tandem. Top of your bucket list? Seeing Les Dissonances perform Mozart&#x2019;s Eine Kleine Nachtmusik live. Your greatest achievement? Still being alive. I&#x2019;ve had some near misses. What do you complain about most often? Losing plectrums. I buy them in bulk, but never seem to be able to find one when I really need it. (That&#x2019;s the little triangular piece of plastic/nylon used to play guitar) What is your fear? That our current sociopolitical impasse in SA doesn&#x2019;t get resolved elegantly and without innocents suffering. If you are walking on stage for a keynote speech, what song would you use and why? Anything by Wynton Marsalis: confused people are easier to convince and/or ideologically bludgeon than well-prepared skeptics. Where would you like to be right now? Charly de Bab-el-oued, Porte Maillot, Paris &#x2013; eating a nice tagine with couscous. Social media links Johnny Clegg Facebook page Andy Innes Facebook page Twitter: @andyinnesgtr Johnny Clegg website Andy Innes website