What is your most treasured possession? Good heavens! I'm scared to reveal this. I might end up like Kim K in Paris. LOL! For a long time, I've always wanted to own diamonds so let&#x2019;s just say I have some of those now. It&#x2019;s your round, what are you drinking? Tequila, anyone who knows me knows I love great tequila. Anything Anejo!! When are you happiest? When I'm with my children, they ground me. They keep me humble and remind me exactly why I do what I love. What does music mean to you? Everything! It wakes me up, it puts me to sleep and it makes my kids happy when I sing. I hear things I think in music that no one hears. I always find myself wanting to create songs when I listen to other music. It makes me happy when I'm sad. It makes me cry when I need to. It is very soothing for one's soul. There is music for every purpose and you can do anything you want to do when you have a melody in your head. All the time. Costume changing malfunctions alone is hilarious. Sometimes we even play word games while we do the show. Then there are things that we cannot control that are so funny. Which living person do you admire most and why? Barack Obama. I have never seen anyone get beat down so much and still maintained his dignity. Dream gig to do? To write a song with one of our biggest South African artists I think that might still happen. What makes you stand out? The fact that I can imitate The Voice, which is Whitney Houston. I always knew I could do it. I just didn't understand what a big deal it was. Now I do. Any nicknames? Lola, Lala, Linda, Pinocchio because of my skinny legs. Oh, and Whitney! If you were not a musician what would you do? I would be a doctor or some sort of a healer. Pick five words to describe yourself? Loud, generous, humble, friendly and loyal. Five desert island discs? Whitney Houston - Greatest Hits Rick Ross - Rather You Than Me Kim Burrell - Everlasting Life Stevie Wonder - Songs in the Key of Life Dirty Loops - Loopafied. Greatest movie ever made? There are so many movies that I have enjoyed over the years, but one of my absolute favourite movies is Braulio Mantovani&#x2019;s City of God. I think it somewhat reminded me of South Africa and the crime and surviving the crime and getting out of it. What song changed your life? Kim Burrell's song, I Come To You More Than I Give. I went through a very difficult time in my life when I was young and I found myself asking for so much without giving and when I heard this song I knew I had to change the way I lived my life. What is your favourite word? Fu k. (Hahaha!) Because it really emphasizes what you mean to say. And my oldest son hates it when I swear but when I say something, this word is in it and he knows I am serious. Favourite fashion garment? My latest favourite is my leather jacket that I bought in a boutique store in Germany. It has just enough edge to accentuate the tomboy and just enough flair to show of the lady in me. I love detail in garments. I've just fallen in love with some local designers called Quitera And George. They have such flair and edge that is just a little dark. I really enjoy their style. Give us some real proper slang and what it means. I am from Port Elizabeth so my slang is different from Cape Town. It's difficult to give you slang because in PE we believe we speak proper Afrikaans. We have an unbelievable amount of attitude with what we say. Top of your bucket list? A full marathon. I am a runner and I would like to accomplish this goal sometime. I think its easier said than done because of the dedication to train, prepare your body to go such a long distance and mentally blocking yourself while competing against others. Is a rigorous experience to say the least. Your greatest achievement? This is my greatest achievement to perform the music of my idol, Whitney Houston &#x2013; especially after she passed. She was a gift for a short time to this world so I have the honour of reminding people that she wasn't all about the trauma and tragedy in her life. What do you complain about most often? Being clean. I am OCD about being clean. I cannot stand a dirty environment. On stage I tend to? Forget my words. It&#x2019;s such a bad habit. I have been doing these songs for almost 25 years and I still forget the lyrics. It's terrible. If you are walking on stage for a keynote speech, what song would you use and why? The Greatest Love of All. If you read the lyrics to that song. It tells you that if you love yourself then it's the greatest love of all. And every time I do that song, I hope to be talking to single mothers and their babies. It teaches to show your kids that they can do anything and when they do what they love, it is the greatest love of all. Where would you like to be right now? Somewhere on a beach tanning. I know I'm already brown but the thought of lying on a beach seems calming and tranquil. Hopefully my kids would also be running circles around me, literally. Social media handles Hashtag: #whitneyhoustonshow Twitter: @belindadavids Instagram: @davidsbelinda | @whitneyhoustonshow www.thewhitneyhoustonshow.com