CityVarsity Film and Production student Mpho Mahlamela who participated at the ACA event together with film director, Lucky Legodu.click to enlargeThe ACA event is a South African fitness convention that features live sports, a health and fitness trade expo and hosts professional and amateur athletes both locally and internationally. There were over 40 sports categories to compete in and different fitness stalls like acrobatics, baseball, volleyball wrestling, archery and more, at the event driven by Arnold Schwarzenegger, Hollywood star, former Mr Olympia and Governor. The students were actively involved in capturing amazing footage of the different sporting activities that took place at the event. Voluntarily dedicating their time and skills for this amazing opportunity. For Bongiwe Sibisi a Film and Production student, working at the event taught her to value and respect her craft and to give her work 100% even when under pressure. She also learnt the value of delivery which is vital in the world of film. &#x201c;It was an exhilarating experience, we were not treated like students but rather as professionals. We took the opportunity and ran with it. It was absolutely awesome,&#x201d; said Bongiwe, a second-year student. The footage collected by the students will be used by Streamit360 a portal that allows people to live stream sporting events on their website from all over the world. Once the students are done editing the videos, they will be loaded on to the portal and viewers will be able to get a summary view of how the ACA went. According to Masikana Mungulwa from CityVarsity&#x2019;s Film Department, the event was life changing and the performance was outstanding. The students exhibited a true passion for the media industry. Corrie Appleton, Production and Office Manager for Streamit360 expressed her appreciation for the level of excellence and professionalism CityVarsity students demonstrated. &#x201c;We were genuinely pleased with the enthusiasm and energy of the students and with the footage that they managed to collect. We would also like to thank the management at CityVarsity for their support, by allowing students the opportunity to get practical exposure at an event of this nature, also for making gear available to the students for use in the production,&#x201d; said Corrie. CityVarsity continues to groom students who will contribute substantially to the film and television industry. To find out more about CityVarsity visit www.cityvarsity.co.za