The Inner Secrets brand is the retail branch of Cape Town-based import and distribution company PDL Distributors, which is owned and operated by the South African-Greek Parolis family. In 2005 mother and son team Penny and Dimitri Parolis identified the local need to showcase heritage brands of lingerie, swimwear, shapewear and sleepwear in an upmarket environment with trained corsetiers who would take the time to fit and advise the consumer. Thus, Inner Secrets Lingerie was born. The company&#x2019;s three branches, all currently located in Cape Town, has amassed a loyal following and regularly couriers product to clients countrywide. According to Dimitri, they felt that the natural next step was to offer a seamless online service. Speaking at the launch event at the Cavendish Square store, he said, &#x201c;We felt it was time to bring Inner Secrets Lingerie onto the fast-growing online retail platform. By doing this we can now offer the many clients we&#x2019;ve made over the years outside of Cape Town a small offering of Inner Secrets Lingerie&#x2019;s best-selling lines at the click of a mouse. Furthermore, we are also now able to tap into a new consumer who has chosen online as their preferred medium for shopping.&#x201d; A post shared by Inner Secrets Lingerie (@innersecrets_sa) on May 31, 2017 at 11:45am PDT Considering that roughly 75% of South African women wear the incorrect bra size, it&#x2019;s still recommended that customers visit a store for a fitting. &#x201c;Once a woman has been fitted by one of our trained corsetiers and knows her bra and panty size in our heritage brands, it makes it easier for her to now be confident shopping online via our website,&#x201d; stated Penny. If this is not possible, comprehensive guidelines and a size chart are available online as well as a virtual assistant to offer extra support during office hours. The Inner Secrets Lingerie online store offers free delivery nationwide for purchases over R500 and due to strict hygiene policies, no intimate garments can be returned. Connect with Inner Secrets Lingerie on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. To view all the action from the launch event click here.