Dentsu Aegis Network Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) is part of the global media group that specialises in media, digital and creative communications and spans over southern Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya and Tanzania with owned businesses and affiliates and affiliate partnerships in another 32 markets across SSA. Urban Afrika Media Limited offers a diverse range of services which includes: brand strategy, creative strategy, brand management, branding, rebranding, brand positioning, brand activation, brand monitoring and media buying. One of their core pillars lies in innovation, which fully supports Dentsu Aegis Networks' vision of &#x201c;Innovating the Way Brands Are Built.&#x201d; Urban Afrika&#x2019;s native principle refers to their conviction that brands are most successful when they resonate with the local native knowledge of the market they service, and this will allow Dentsu Aegis Network&#x2019;s global clients to have the rich insight into local nuances of the Zimbabwean consumer. The team at Urban Afrika are known for creating experiences that inspire clients and immerse them in a culture of innovation, with a staff complement of 20 talented and dynamic enthusiasts at the root of their success. Urban Afrika has a credible client base including: Econet, Premier Service Medical Aid Society, Bakers Inn, Rainbow Tourism Group Ltd, Unicef, Chloride Zimbabwe, Chemplex Cooperation, Cairns Foods to name a few. Speaking on the affiliation, the Group Chief Operating Officer for Dentsu Aegis Network Sub Saharan Africa, Bevis Hoets, stated, &#x201d;Urban Afrika has a young dynamic team with a core focus on innovation and doing things differently. This aligns well with Dentsu Aegis Networks' strategy and we are proud to have them join our growing SSA affiliate network. We are excited about the opportunities that Zimbabwe presents and we expect to see some significant changes in this market in the years to come.&#x201d; Julie Makaza, Managing Director for Urban Afrika, commented on the affiliation, &#x201d;A huge step of innovative growth in the right direction, not only for Urban Afrika but for the entire African region. This partnership allows our clients to experience a new level of excellence and will unlock maximum brand power, as we are now able to explore new possibilities within our business. We are confident that this partnership will allow both parties to consequently contribute to greater market and economic growth. This is a global opportunity for brands to enjoy increased sales and aggregate demand across all spheres of the market.&#x201d;