The International Property Awards are open to residential and commercial property professionals from around the globe to celebrate the highest levels of achievement by companies operating in all sectors of the property and real estate industry. Kurtis Swan of the International Property Awards, says, &#x201c;Looking at the entry list, Residential Developments in South Africa was actually an over-subscribed category, and we allowed more than our 'normal' allocation to enter. Therefore, even bigger congratulations are due to Sitari Country Estate for taking that award. From there, only the best in each African country are put forward, with then only the best few getting shortlisted and judged against one another. The winner is then crowned best in that region. In this way Sitari came to be judged Best Residential Development Africa.&#x201d; John Coetzee, executive director of Uvest Property Group, developers of Sitari Country Estate, adds, &#x201c;We were ecstatic to receive the award for Best Residential Development in South Africa at only two-years-old. To take the award for the whole of Africa now at an event held at the Savoy Hotel in London leaves makes us more than delighted. We envisioned Sitari Country Estate as being a premium country lifestyle destination, with a range of products that suit a wide range of buyers. Being recognised internationally and as best in all of Africa really inspires us to do even more to realise the full potential offered by Sitari.&#x201d; This 192-hectare estate and R4-billion mega-projects is already a local landmark in the Helderberg valley. Since launching in September 2014, the capital growth of its properties has been strong: calculated over its first 30 months, plots have seen capital appreciation of 69%, apartments of 34% and homes of 26%. Coetzee reported that 2017 is set to be a big year for Sitari, with an estimated 700 properties being under construction. This includes sectional title apartments, and village and country homes spread across the phases. For more information, go to www.sitari.co.za.