1. Attractive SMS campaigns Unless you want to overload your audience with tons of messages, you will have to limit your message to the 160 characters of one SMS. This means you have to find a creative use for the limited space to bring your message across. Make your text appealing without compromising on persuasion and comprehension. If you are looking for inspiration, you can take a look at the Twitter accounts of other companies, dealing with the same character limitation, such as Amazon. Whatever you do, make sure you still communicate in a way that matches your audience and company. 2. Clear call to action What do you want the receiver of your message to do after reading your carefully thought out SMS campaign? Make sure the goal of your message is reached by explicitly triggering an action from your receiver. That means you don&#x2019;t just send a discount code or an event announcement. Instead, you should invite your receiver to click on the hyperlink, register for the event of cash the coupon within 24 hours. 3. Exclusive If the offer you send is available to all customers, there will be no added value to the SMS for the receiver. Make sure the receiver has a clear reason not to unsubscribe from your SMS list. Therefore, it is important to let him know that he has received an exclusive offer. You can mention this in the text, or you can choose to -for example- add the word SMS to the discount code or by stating this is a VIP only offer. 4. Personalise Because SMS marketing campaigns are a powerful tool, your company is not the only one asking for your customer&#x2019;s attention via SMS. Your message should this be worth the read. Therefore, personalisation is crucial. There are several ways to successfully personalise a message in order to increase its value. Consider adding the name of the receiver, but also adding your own. Also, you could consider adding subcategories to your SMS list. This way, you can personalise your message on more than just the name. Here, you can read more about sending personalised SMS. 5. Interaction Nowadays, there is no need for SMS campaigns to be one-way. If you use the right platform, you can easily enable the receiver to send a reply to your campaign. This way, you can have an actual conversation with your audience. This will not only make your company more approachable, which can be of great influence on brand loyalty. Also, it will allow you to receive feedback and ask questions, giving you the insights to take your business to the next level. 6. Questions and questionnaires Of course, there are more ways to receive this feedback from your customers. As a very accessible communication tool, SMS is most suitable for sending out questionnaires. With CM&#x2019;s Marketing Campaigns you will shortly easily send out questionnaires to everybody in your SMS list. Read more about CM&#x2019;s Marketing Campaigns. 7. Timing and frequency A final but not unimportant point is timing. You can imagine that if you send out carefully thought out SMSes at the wrong time it is a waste of time, money and efforts. Therefore, you need to make sure you know what time is best for your target audience. This can vary per group. Here, you can read more about the perfect timing of SMS messages. It is not just in regards of timing that the perfect SMS campaign depends on your target audience. Don&#x2019;t hesitate to experiment a little with all the mentioned variables and keep a close eye on results such as open ratio and click rates. Data analysis will tell you what messages are most effective for your target audience. Of course, you can always count on us to help you set up the most successful SMS marketing campaign. Read more about CM&#x2019;s Marketing Campaigns or {{https://www.cmtelecom.co.za/contact?utm_source=Referral-BizCom&utm_medium=press_release&utm_campaign=7_secrets&utm_term=referral&utm_content=sms%20marketing contact us]] for more information.