Congrats on being selected as a 2017 Young Gun! How do you see this recognition influencing your winemaking career? It&#x2019;s truly an honour to be a Young Gun. I'm so appreciative to the Wine Cellar team for allowing me this opportunity and creating this platform. Young Guns is a platform for young winemakers that are against convention, making really interesting wines and looking to make a name for themselves amongst SA&#x2019;s elite. Young Guns is now a high point on the wine industry calendar. It helps us get our foot in the door if you will &#x2013; and I feel we are taken more seriously in the industry as a result. The wines are in demand and it&#x2019;s not only a platform for sales, but it also helps us to gain respect as a winemaker. Can you give us some background on how you got into winemaking? Zimbabwean-born, and once a ballet dancer &#x2013; I hung up my pointe shoes in exchange for wellies - and journeyed on to Elsenburg to study. At the time, my calling was the life of a cattle farmer but the love for science, wine and food drew me in and the rest is history! I made connections throughout the years, learning from every winemaker and wine lover that I came across. Iona is where I learned the ropes. I then found a home at Cape Crush and with the support of my incredible family and dear friends, I started my brand. My heart is in every bottle &#x2013; I always work with what I have. As winemakers we work with uncontrolled elements and a live product. As long as the wine is good, balanced and people enjoy it, then I am happy. That's what life is about for me &#x2013; to be happy! I believe that wine, food and music bring people together and that is exactly what I'd like to achieve with my wines. I am currently only making straight varietals and have started the range with my favourite cultivars (Semillon and Cabernet franc). The wine is inspired by music, as am I... my winemaking journey has been a roller coaster &#x2013; but I never want to get off the ride! How would you describe the style of your wine? I have made serious wines, in an approachable manner &#x2013; just the way my family, my friends and I like to drink wine. The wine is W.O Elgin, the wines are therefore cool climate elegant wines with natural acidity. Both wines have a long ageing potential, but can also be enjoyed now. My wines are very food compatible, but can also be enjoyed on their own. I'd like to think of my wines as having old world charm with new world flair. In other words, wines made in a new world style, using old world techniques. I&#x2019;ve chosen to make my favourite cultivars, which happen to be unusual and I&#x2019;ve made them as straight varietals. 100% Semillon and 100% Cabernet franc, no blends. The Garajeest wines are cultivar expressive and terroir driven, with minimal intervention in the cellar. #YouthMonth: Q&A with #YoungGunsB2B Stephanie Wiid of Thistle & WeedWine Cellar: Fine Wine Merchants and Cellarers recently announced their top pick of SA's hottest young winemaking talent for the seventh edition of the Young Guns tasting event. We got in touch with one of the rising stars, Stephanie Wiid, one half of Thistle & Weed, to chat all things wine.By Ruth Cooper 2 days ago What makes your wine/brand unique? The Garajeest is a premium, handcrafted wine. I tend to focus on the unconventional and see myself as a creative spirit. My dream of making wine that has edge, authenticity, character and convincingly translates the honest and down to earth character of the cultivar, is now being realised. The Garajeest is a wine brand that walks to the beat of its own drum. It's the brain-child of a 20-something music enthusiast. This wine embodies my fascination with life, vines and verse and inspired the concept 'lyrics and legends'. My wine is inspired by music &#x2013; every cultivar and wine is inspired by a different musician. Bruce Cabernet franc & Jim Semillon &#x2013; both produced in limited numbers &#x2013; are inspired by icons that embody a time and movement that resonates with the unique taste profile of each vintage. My wish is that the music comes to life as the wine is enjoyed, swept up in an era of true talent and passion-filled freedoms. What have been some of the highlights and challenges of winemaking in SA? Well, launching my own brand of course, making wine my way, running my business and the response I've had to my wines. It feels like I'm living my dream! Wine is of course a live product &#x2013; the vineyard is dependent on uncontrollable elements and that is challenging. The industry can also seem to be full of red tape, but with time we learn the in&#x2019;s and out&#x2019;s. The challenges just make the accomplishments that much sweeter. Having my wines and work recognised and being able to sell the Garajeest wines through Wine Cellar is also a definite highlight. Niche grapes and innovative winemaking: The Young Guns of 2017Roland Peens and James Pietersen of Wine Cellar reveal their top picks for rising stars in the wine industry who should most definitely be on your radar - the Young Guns of 2017...22 Jun 2017 What excites you about the local wine industry? I love what Wine Cellar does with Young Guns, discovering &#x2018;new wave&#x2019; producers and providing a platform for those who are not constrained by vineyards and capital costs. I love to follow these winemakers making interesting wines. I'm really excited as well by the fact that more and more South Africans are drinking wine, talking wine, supporting events... it&#x2019;s an exciting time to be a part of the industry. What&#x2019;s next? I'm planning a new release in the next few months, watch this space! My drive lies in pushing the boundaries of fine wine in South Africa. I strive to produce dynamic, interesting and exciting wines. The Garajeest by Callan Williams is available for sale via Wine Cellar Fine Wine Merchants and Cellarers. For more information, click here.