For some children, such as seven-year-old Uyanda, who are born with facial abnormalities, to be able to smile is something they wish for most. Being born with a cleft lip and cleft palate caused severe challenges in early feeding and Uyanda&#x2019;s mother wasn&#x2019;t blessed with seeing her precious child&#x2019;s first smile. From June this year, Labello is caring for lips and smiles across South Africa in a whole new way, by partnering with Smile Foundation to help other children like Uyanda. Through the Smile Foundation Uyanda has had three corrective surgeries and ongoing speech therapy over the last six years to give this courageous little girl the beautiful smile and confidence that she has today. A new limited edition Labello Original Care Beautiful Smile dual-pack, available from June, offers two sticks of its timeless classic, Labello Original Care. Perfect for sharing! It&#x2019;s a favourite beauty product - your secret to a picture-perfect pout, providing long-lasting moisture for irresistibly soft lips and a gorgeous smile. And now you can share it with a friend to make a life-changing difference to a child&#x2019;s life. There are three reasons the Labello Original Care Beautiful Smile dual-pack will make you smile: Firstly, when you buy a Beautiful Smile dual-pack for R34.99, R2 will go to the Smile Foundation. Secondly, you can share the smile by giving one stick to a friend. Thirdly, you can have some fun and upload a photo or video of you sharing your Beautiful Smile stick to Facebook or Instagram with the hastag #LabelloSmileChallenge and a further R1 will go to Smile Foundation. You&#x2019;re probably smiling already! Are you ready to take the #LabelloSmileChallenge to help transform lives? Through Labello Beautiful Smile the goal is to raise, R250,000 for Smile Foundation by the end of September 2017. The funds raised will support paediatric patient surgeries within a mini Smile Week, to give children with facial abnormalities such as cleft lip or palate, facial paralysis, ear and nose deformities, burns, growths and craniofacial conditions the corrective surgery they need. Go to the Labello South Africa Facebook page and Instagram account and share your pics. Available from leading retail outlets and pharmacies nationwide from June 2017, for R34.99. &#x201c;Everytime you smile at someone, it is an action of love, a gift to that person, a beautiful thing.&#x201d; ~ Mother Teresa About Smile Foundation We&#x2019;re about putting smiles on the faces of children in South Africa! Smile Foundation is a South African NGO that assists children with any type of facial or other conditions, to receive reconstructive surgery within South Africa. We help children who suffer from treatable facial anomalies such as cleft lip and palate, all burns, Moebius syndrome (facial paralysis) and other conditions. We are currently based in 10 academic hospitals around South Africa. We are investing in the medical teams we work with, through an academic skills programme, and we assist the hospitals by purchasing equipment for use by the Departments of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Our Chief Patron, the late honourable Nelson Mandela&#x2019;s wish is for us to assist as many children around South Africa as possible to alleviate the stigma attached to living with a facial condition. For more information, contact Smile Foundation on www.smilefoundation.co.za or 0861 276 453. Consumer Care Line: 0860 102 091 Labello.co.za Like us on Facebook: LabelloSA Follow us on Instagram: labello_za