 Melanie Lemahieu via 123RFCommunications and talent agency, Celebrity Services Africa, has launched On the Radar, a quarterly report that identifies and honours the next generation of African talent including musicians, artists, social innovators and sports stars who are set to become 21st century media moguls. The report consists of a selection of 40 artists and personalities that have been identified from across the African continent, most notably Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya, Congo and South Africa. A Top 14 list provides the reader with a definitive shortlist of trailblazers, a short bio and recent career highlights. As part of the selection process for On the Radar, C.S.A&#x2019;s team of experts applied their unique IP insights, not only based on an artist&#x2019;s social standing but also on merit of urban relevance, content and media interest. &#x201c;A definitive Pan-African urban culture report, On the Radar acknowledges the continent&#x2019;s up and coming influencers, opinion leaders, taste-makers and scene-shakers who have the potential for commercial relevance,&#x201d; says C.S.A. director Davin Phillips. As specialists in influencer marketing, C.S.A. has worked with some of the most successful professionals across the global cultural landscape and on influencer campaigns for brands including C ROC, Courvoisier and Red Heart. The agency has also identified brand ambassadors for events such as The L&#x2019;Ormarins Queen&#x2019;s Plate and managed talent that has gone on to achieve platinum status in the music industry. With a worldwide network achieved over two decades, C.S.A. enables engagement with celebrity influencers appropriate to a brand&#x2019;s identity. Both their Cape Town headquarters and office in Nigeria bring a distinct local focus, intent on establishing and promoting talent across the African landscape. The company also has offices in Los Angeles, California. &#x201c;We believe that talent discovery shouldn&#x2019;t be limited by location or lack of infrastructure and our On the Radar allows the right talent across Africa to be recognised for their ability. Congratulations to everyone that made it onto the report,&#x201d; added Phillips. For the full report, visit The Wire. 