Matheba adds her star power, as MC, to the opulent event, which offers a &#x2018;best-in-class' experience with a rich tapestry of fashion, couture, fine wines, artisanal cocktail bars, delicious dining and picnic options, live music and entertainment, VIP lounges, a luxury BMW vehicle display, an equestrian &#x2018;Speed Stakes&#x2019; and much more. This glamorous event is set to take place on Saturday, 10 June 2017 at Steyn City, the sprawling 2000-acre multi-billion rand lifestyle resort. &#x201c;We are thrilled to have Bonang on board for this exciting collaboration between Le Kap Magazine and Steyn City and to host this sophisticated annual event, which is set to attract both local and international captains of industry, celebrity and VIP guests to Steyn City&#x201d;, says Giuseppe Plumari, the CEO of Steyn City. Steve Swanepoel, founder and CEO of Le Mag Publications Group and the publisher of Le Kap magazine, and also the founder of the annual &#x2018;Le Kap Lifestyle Fair&#x2019; says, &#x2018;The Le Kap brand is synonymous with luxury, fashion, style, celebrities and attracts a jubilee of multimedia recognition and Steyn City lends itself perfectly to such elements. Unique to Le Kap Lifestyle Fair is the bringing together of a discerning audience and the purveyors of some of the world&#x2019;s most prestigious luxury brands.&#x2019; Fashion show Leading South African couturiers, Gert-Johan Coetzee, Jacques Lagrange, Quiteria & George and Warrick Gautier will be exhibiting their latest collections on the Le Kap catwalk. Live music Caitlin De Ville, the sensational electric violinist, will be entertaining Le Kap guests. Zambian-born Caitlin has nearly 17m views on her YouTube channel. Her sensational performances have attracted royalty and presidents, amongst her many other fans, in more than 25 countries. Celebrities and VVIP Le Kap Lifestyle Fair is the playground of the &#x2018;jet-set&#x2019; and celebrities and to celebrate this occasion we have secured two 'new generation' Airbus H125 helicopters, from MCC Aviation, the official aviation partners to Le Kap Lifestyle Fair. Select celebrities and VVIP guests will be flown to the event for a true celebrity arrival. Wines and beverages At least 10 premier South African wine estates, such as Rust and Vrede, Paul Cluver Wines, Tokara, Haute Cabri re, Meerlust, Saronsburg, Mulderbosch, Anthonij Rupert Wines and DeWetshof will be offering complimentary wine tastings throughout the day. Besides wine tasting, event attendees will also be able to purchase wine by the glass or buy wine by the case - to take home - directly from wine estate representatives. Cash bars for speciality artisanal cocktails, spirits and craft beer will also be available. In the Platinum VVIP lounge, guests will be spoilt for choice, starting with Bollinger Champagne being served as the welcome drink, Remy Martin XO, Remy Martin VSOP, Cointreau, Remy Martin Fine Champagne Cognac and The Botanist Gin, to name but a few. Some Platinum VVIP guests will also be able to attend an elite tasting of Louis XIII, the world&#x2019;s most exclusive cognac. Access to the sought-after Platinum VVIP lounge is strictly by invitation. However, a limited number of tickets have been allocated for sale on TicketPros. Food Leading celebrity chefs, Chantel Dartnall, Benny Masekwameng, Jane-Therese Mulry, Deena Naidoo and Nathan Jacobs will each be afforded a 30-minute slot to showcase the preparation of their signature dishes. The same meal will be served to each and every one who attends the event. The Platinum VVIP Lounge and VIP Lux Lounge guests will have numerous delicious food offerings served during the day. Equestrian Another one of the highlights to the 2017 Le Kap Lifestyle Fair will be a magnificent display of horsemanship in the exciting &#x2018;Speed Stakes&#x2019; competition presented by the Steyn City Equestrian Centre. Gala dinner- R2000 per person (limited availability) An exclusive 5-course Gourmand Dinner, prepared by celebrated master chef Gerard Vingerling &#x2013; the executive chef of the Palazzo Hotel, Montecasino will take place on Friday, 9 June as a precursor to this opulent event. The five-course dinner menu will be perfectly paired with a selection of premium wines. Details of the dinner are available on the event website and various social media platforms. Dinner bookings should be made by clicking here: moc.snoitacilbupgamel&#64;ofni . Tickets available from Ticketpros or on the Le Kap website. Read more about the various ticket options available by clicking here