Adrian Gore, CEO of Discovery - 2016 AABLA Southern Africa Business Leader of the Year and Company of the Year.Henley Business School Africa (Henley Africa) has partnered with the prestigious AABLA as the official Southern Africa research partner. AABLA Southern Africa takes place at Montecasino in Johannesburg on 28 September 2017, with the AABLA Grand Finale celebrating the best in African business at the Sandton Convention Centre on 30 November 2017. As AABLA research partner for Southern Africa, Henley Africa will audit the academic documents and will conduct reputation research for all Southern African entrants. Jonathan Foster-Pedley, Henley Africa&#x2019;s dean and director, is on the judging panel for the Southern Africa AABLA and also involved in the selection process for the AABLA Grand Finale on 30 November 2017, when Africa&#x2019;s All Africa winners will be announced. &#x201c;Henley has been involved in growing business leaders in Africa for the past 26 years. Our vision is to build the people, who build the businesses that build Africa. We are therefore very pleased to partner with CNBC Africa,&#x201d; says Foster-Pedley. Henley will be encouraging its students, alumni and clients &#x2013; many of whom are prominent leaders that are making a difference in their industries and communities - to enter the awards. &#x201c;The awards tie in with our emphasis on being a truly international business school, at the forefront of teaching sound business principles and highly effective leadership skills that are internationally accredited and recognised,&#x201d; comments Foster-Pedley. &#x201c;Over the years many of Africa&#x2019;s prominent business leaders have enrolled at Henley. They like the fact that we are rated among the top business schools in the world. We are also the only business school in Africa to offer a triple-accredited MBA, with accreditation from the leading UK, European and US accreditation bodies. We are also accredited by South Africa&#x2019;s Council on Higher Education and many of our alumni work in senior positions in government, industry, media, business schools and NGOs,&#x201d; concludes Foster-Pedley. Entries for the 7th All Africa Business Leaders Awards have been extended and will close on 30 June 2017.