Cape Town has some of the most creative coffee shops and restaurants; one of the most notable is Truth Coffee Roasting. Truth is a steam-punk themed Cape Town favourite. This accolade-bearing coffee shop is located on Buitenkant Street. It is famous for brewing the best coffee in town. Its intimate setting has made it a regular hangout for the natives. The creative co-working spaces such as the Inner Cities Ideas Cartel and Inspiration Playground allow for great ideas to flow whilst conducting business. Inner Cities Ideas Cartel, for example, has amazing views and is equipped with a must-visit coffee bar. Being a working space, it is stocked with all the essential hardware a young entrepreneur would require. This creative space can be found along the Fan Walk. The Inspiration Playground is actually a three-bedroomed house in Woodstock that has been designed to encourage and inspire creativity. Patrons will find an informal meeting area as well as an outdoor space with a swing along with several areas for relaxation. There is also a fully-stocked kitchen and several desks. With a thriving art scene, the city has galleries such as the Youngblood Gallery on Bree Street which hosts art by up and coming artists and is the perfect venue for creative art. Cape Town also makes a concerted effort to host the monthly First Thursdays, where most arts and culture spots open their doors to the public until late &#x2013; mostly free of charge, and not forgetting the annual Design Indaba. The Design Indaba celebrates our country&#x2019;s effervescent and inspiring creative quarter. The Indaba platforms include all forms of creative design, from graphic design to fashion design, all the way down to architecture and fine art. Inhabitants of the city can expect to be exposed to the city&#x2019;s many art galleries and cultural events showcasing the plethora of talent that the city is home to. The Mother City, aptly named, is quite the nurturer for unique individuals with a creative spirit, much like CityVarsity, South Africa&#x2019;s go-to school for creative arts. Positioned perfectly in the heart of Cape Town&#x2019;s creative and design district, CityVarsity offers students an array of courses for creatives. Courses on offer include Photography, Acting, Journalism, Multimedia, Film, Animation and Sound. CityVarsity imbues the creative culture you can find in Cape Town with first Thursday&#x2019;s and many students being exposed to gallery showings, not only to view but to share their brilliance. For more information on CityVarsity&#x2019;s courses, contact 021 466 6800 or visit www.cityvarsity.co.za