Overall, transport is changing for the better. Lorenzo Floramonti, professor at the University of Pretoria, put forward a positive vision for the future, where society is embracing new technology and innovation if it has a positive impact on their lives. In this sense, the heart of enhancement to transport systems lies in the improvement of passengers&#x2019; wellbeing and the upliftment of local economies. Services such as Uber will continue to grow if they combine smart technology with a strong social role in every country they operate. Trends point to a need for change. Santosh Rao Danda, EMEA research scientist for Uber noted that there are over one billion two hundred million cars in the world. In South Africa alone, one in five people owns a vehicle. However, more and more people are realising that this lifestyle is not sustainable from an environmental and financial perspective. In South Africa, almost twenty thousand riders are using Uber more than ten times a week which suggests a clear shift in car ownership behaviour. Transportation accounts for 22% of all carbon emissions which causes air pollution, and 10% of millennial Uber riders have given up their cars or not purchased one at all. Today, ride-hailing accounts for 4% of all miles driven globally, with this figure expected to increase to 25% by 2030. Technology at the core of innovation Mpumi Mpofu, former director-general, national department of transport stated: &#x201c;Intelligent transport systems will lead the way in enhancing road safety and integrated law enforcement. Cities can expect exciting new technology such a drones, dashcams and vehicle testing of speed over distance as new tools emerge to encourage responsible driving.&#x201d; The mayoral committee member for transport and urban development in Cape Town, Brett Herron further added that, in Cape Town, for example, Wi-Fi is available on the BRT buses, as well as an integrated ticketing system. There are also talks with taxi associations to put in place digital taxi operating systems. Urban mobility can create more jobs Marek Hanusch of the World Bank noted that more job opportunities are critical to reducing poverty in South Africa. While this will not eliminate poverty entirely, it will improve the lives and families of many. Cities also need to acknowledge the needs of the poor. Many of the poor move to cities to find work, but struggle to afford transportation or sustain themselves. Cities need to, therefore, accommodate the needs of all income brackets in their planning. Leaders in tech also need to find ways of using their technology to adapt and create efficient, accessible transport systems. Urban mobility requires investment and collaboration Philip van Ryneveld, Open Streets advisory board member and transport consultant said, &#x201c;We need to spend our budgets on the improvement of private and public transportation systems.&#x201d; Edgar Pieters, director of African Centre for Cities, SA research chair in urban planning expanded on this, illustrating how public investments in the built environment of African cities often display an elite/middle-class bias. Transport is key to the improvement of Africa&#x2019;s current infrastructure crisis, as it holds the potential to level the playing field. How streets can help bridge social and spatial dividesI recently had a very inspiring conversation with Marcela Guerrero Casas, co-founder and MD of Open Streets Cape Town about the power of streets and its ability to bridge social and spatial divides...By Ilse van den Berg 26 May 2017 Richard Gordge, CEO of Transport Futures says this requires a paradigm shift in planning which rethinks our local centres, streets and public transport systems in order to serve local communities. Urban mobility needs to continually and consciously evolve Rehana Moosajee, founder of Rehana Moosajee Consulting emphasised: &#x201c;Everything and everyone is moving so fast without stopping to reflect on what we are doing. For example, we need to think of our future generations by making walking and cycling or even taking public transport to school or work safe again through finding other alternatives.&#x201d; Ultimately, an affordable, safe and reliable transport system is about more than mobility, it&#x2019;s about a social movement centred on wellbeing. Road safety is a critical area of focus in South Africa South Africans still need to be encouraged to use seatbelts, reduce their speed and stop drinking and driving. Mpofu further stated that, &#x201c;Uber contributes greatly to road safety in South Africa through the collection of data and identification of hazardous areas. Technology gives us great potential to help South African drivers take personal responsibility in road safety.&#x201d; Uber will continue to work in collaboration with public transport providers and government to promote safe, accessible transport in South African cities. This will include a continued focus on safety and the identification of improved pick-up and drop-off points. Uber will also endeavour to diversify its product offering to promote urban mobility for South Africans from all walks of life.