 Rabia Elif Aksoy via 123RFA total of 16 FastTrack events are being held across Africa, Europe and the Middle East, and startups can now apply until 20 June to present their ideas to mentors and sponsors for pre-application advice and feedback. &#x201c;The aim is to find and grow disruptive startups and connect them with dynamic corporates. We are fundamentally changing the ecosystem and seeing tangible results that validate our methodology. The more we engage the more excited we get at how much talent we unearth at these FastTracks,&#x201d; shares Philip Kiracofe, co-MD of Startupbootcamp Cape Town. The Accra FastTrack is being hosted by Workshed Africa and they are seeking applications from disruptive startups in industries including blockchain, connected devices, payment solutions, capital markets and asset management, integrated supply chain, e-commerce, alternative financing, identity management, digital connectivity, data and behavioural analytics and enabling technologies. &#x201c;Over the years, the Ghanaian entrepreneurial space has seen a sharp rise in the number of creators and doers. Ideas aimed at solving basic problems and access to medical information, transportation services and even ideas in the food space have sharply been complimented by technology to give entrepreneurs the competitive edge. &#x201c;The provision of services like co-working spaces, business advisory and government intervention through policy is set to position Ghana in a whole new light in terms of entrepreneurship. All these factors are making the Ghanaian entrepreneurship space attractive to not only African investors but global players. The time to invest in entrepreneurship in Ghana is now,&#x201d; shares Andrew Bimpong, co-founder of Workshed Africa. Beyond the FastTracks Although FastTrack engagements are not a requirement to apply for the Startupbootcamp Accelerator, it is encouraged to apply. From a pool of hundreds of applicants, the 10 most promising teams will be selected and provided with EUR 15,000, 100+ highly engaged industry mentors, free office space, access to funding and a network of industry partners, investors and venture capital firms. The three-month bootcamp kicks off in September 2017 in Cape Town, South Africa, and will be led by seasoned innovation experts, Zachariah George, Philip Kiracofe, and Paul Nel. Startupbootcamp CapeTown was initiated after a trend analysis found more than 160 applications to the global programme originated from African teams in 2016 alone. Interested teams can apply to attend a FastTrack here. Any mentors that would like to help with the FastTrack can apply here. Startups interested in applying to the 3-month Cape Town program can apply here.