Tourism Deputy Minister Elizabeth Thebethe, Deputy Minister of the Presidency Buti Manamela and North West Tourism MEC Desbo Mohono engaging with one of the exhibitors at the Youth in Tourism Imbizo At the Imbizo, these government leaders encouraged the over one thousand young people attending the event not to indulge in activities that will destroy their lives, but to explore opportunities available within government and use them to develop their lives and that they will always be a priority when it comes to economic development programmes, job creation and many other programmes geared towards youth empowerment. The objective of the Youth in Tourism Imbizo was, to provide access to information, opportunities and funding mechanisms available for youth in the tourism sector and related industries. The event also targeted the Youth in Tourism (students and learners in tourism), and aspiring youth entrepreneurs, women and the public in general. It also seeks to stimulate township tourism and inculcate the culture of domestic tourism at an early age to the young entrepreneurs. Mohono further vowed to ensure that she will make sure that every opportunity available within the tourism industry, especially in the province, will be explored and directed to every youth development programme. &#x201c;We had several young people knocking on our doors, requesting either funding or bursaries. Out of the few that we have assisted, we have obtained good results and that makes me proud that our efforts in ensuring youth development in the tourism sector are coming to fruition. I will personally soldier on until we win this battle. We are currently encouraging them to study towards starting their own businesses instead of being job seekers post-graduation.&#x201d; Tourism has the potential to create opportunities &#x201c;The tourism industry has big, great opportunities and we are determined to make sure that the young people in the province and the country take the lead in this industry. We have many of those that have made inroads and we will continue to assist them growing the economy of this country through tourism programmes,&#x201d; said Mohono. According to the 2016 Stats SA quarterly labour force survey (released 1 June 2017), unemployed youth (aged 15-34) accounts for 38,6%. of the national overall unemployment rate. Despite this, Thabethe is optimistic that tourism has the potential to create opportunities that will contribute to alleviating youth unemployment, poverty, and inequality. &#x201c;Our government advocates for the advancement of youth economic empowerment. As a department, we have prioritised the advancement of youth in our plans for growing tourism. We will ensure that young people are actively participating and benefiting from the initiatives and opportunities provided by the sector,&#x201d; said Thabethe.