Tell us a bit more about the codeX Coding Academy. The codeX Coding Academy is all about getting talented young software developers ready for the world of work in the most effective way possible: by experiencing it within our network of corporate partners who regularly invite groups of our students to come work in their spaces for a short but very valuable period of time. The students are encouraged to learn via the scrum approach which is a collaborative, no-holds barred, interactive approach to practical learning. Why is there a need for such academies - what benefits does it hold for all the respective parties such as the youth, the economy and country at large? The academy was born out of a belief that the next significant growth phase of the South African economy will be powered not by tangible subterranean assets but by intangible human creativity expressed in code. Young people at the peak of their optimism and enthusiasm make for excellent coders because they are natural problem solvers. We help them channel their energy towards a productive endeavour that will help them earn a reliable income, benefitting themselves and the people around them. South Africa has made tremendous strides towards diversifying its economy and software development can play an important role in further building the country&#x2019;s services sector. Why would you say is it important to teach the youth about collaboration? We can build so much more when we work in teams - we have better quality in both the products we make and the way we make them. Studies show that the more diversity we have in teams, the better fit the products will be, as long as we know how to make the best of everybody's strengths. South Africa&#x2019;s history is a clear demonstration that so much more can be achieved when groups of people work together towards a common goal. In your opinion, what does a young person need to become a successful developer? The ability to think about what you're thinking, and how you think! And then to work as a team to translate that into a language a computer will understand. The ability to be an individual at home and a team player at work. We&#x2019;ve also spoken about the need for enthusiasm, optimism and the ability to collaborate. What will be the secret weapon to helping school leavers and graduates get equipped for the working world? A willingness to keep the long game in mind, an understanding that we all have to put up with short term pain for long term gain. Young people should never give up easily. The rewards are waiting for the consistent hard workers. To what extent can learning to code / develop change the future for the youth of today? Coding is a creative process: you are actively making something that other people will use! When you know you're doing that, your whole perspective on the world changes. It can give them a real income earning skill while they figure out the meaning of life. The youth of South Africa... ...are our future. They need support to develop skills, and to know that everything they do to make the future better, matters.