Kagiso Rabada Shaun PollockOpenfield Marketing worked together with Nissan to strategically align their brand with the right brand ambassadors and identify creative, meaningful and sustainable ways to use influencer appearances, endorsements, actions and communication platforms. Kagiso Rabada was identified as the perfect candidate along with one of South Africa&#x2019;s greatest, Shaun Pollock. Since his retirement, Pollock has become a regular contributor as a cricket commentator on the international circuit providing valuable cricketing insights, whilst Rabada has continued his exponential rise in world cricket, where he currently heads up the ICC ODI bowling rankings. Nissan became a supporter of cricket in October 2015 when it announced an eight-year deal with the ICC as a global sponsor of cricket&#x2019;s international tournaments. The tournaments include the ICC Cricket World Cup, ICC Champions Trophy and ICC World Twenty20, as well as ICC Under-19, ICC Women's and Qualifying events. The Japanese carmaker is at the forefront of bringing its innovations that excite to an audience of cricket lovers around the globe with its personalised approach to fans. Nissan&#x2019;s partnership with the ICC has assisted with the growth of their brand within the international sport sponsorship platform. &#x201c;I am delighted that we are able to continue our relationship with Kagiso and we welcome Shaun to the Nissan team as our cricket ambassadors in South Africa. They will help connect our brand with South Africans through our shared love of cricket,&#x201d; said managing director of Nissan South Africa, Mike Whitfield. &#x201c;We are excited to partner with a legend of the game on one hand and one of the game&#x2019;s premier bowlers on the other, one representing consistent excellence and leadership and the other a force to be reckoned with in the global ranks." With these two internationally recognisable ambassadors, Nissan hopes to grow and foster a personal connection with cricket fans across the globe. The ambassadors, Pollock and Rabada, join a group of global superstars who are Nissan Brand Ambassadors, including Olympic sprint gold medalist and world record holder Usain Bolt. Shaun Pollock achieved immense milestones and achieved many accolades throughout his distinguished career which saw him reach the top spot on the ICC rankings for best test bowler, test all-rounder, ODI bowler and ODI all-rounder. Pollock captained the Proteas from 2000 to 2003 and still holds the record for the lowest economy rate of any bowler to have taken 300 ODI wickets. He was also the first South African and the tenth fastest player to take 400 Test wickets. &#x201c;I am honoured to be included as part of the Nissan team and look forward to being associated with Nissan as a brand ambassador,&#x201d; Shaun Pollock said. &#x201c;Nissan&#x2019;s partnership with cricket will bring fans closer to the game we all love so much.&#x201d; KG delivered a stellar performance in 2016, taking a record six awards in the CSA awards, including player of the year, the youngest player to ever achieve this feat. Rabada continues to grow and challenge himself as a player, by making himself eligible for his first IPL tournament this year where he played for the Delhi Daredevils. &#x201c;I am so proud that Nissan and I get to continue on our journey &#x2013; 2016 was a great year, and with a partner like Nissan, 2017 can only be better,&#x201d; Kagiso Rabada said. &#x201c;I am committed to delivering the same performance as a Nissan ambassador as I do with the ball in hand.&#x201d; Rabada has seen equal success in South African Test cricket as he has in the ODI format of the game, taking 71 wickets in 17 matches of which there were two ten-wicket hauls and five five-wicket hauls. Rabada boasts seventh place on the ICC test bowler rankings which currently makes him the top South African test bowler. Keep a close eye out for our two Nissan Ambassadors as Rabada competes against the best in the world in the ICC Champions Trophy and Pollock brings you all of the latest news, views and opportunities to participate. To join the conversation use #MomentsThatCount - a platform where cricket fans can share the action and memories with the ambassadors and each other. Be part of the excitement &#x2013; for more information click on Nissan&#x2019;s ICC sponsorship page https://www.nissan.co.za/experience-nissan/partnerships/icc-sponsorship.html.