I caught up with her during the big Cape storm last week. What does music mean to you? Music is not simply a passion of mine but a way of life that enriches each and every day. It makes my soul smile. Any funny moments on stage? Forgetting lyrics and finding myself either singing the same verse 3 times or getting everyone in the audience to sing gibberish with me. Your heroes? Any person willing to make a conscious effort to uplift someone else. Which living person do you admire most and why? I can't choose one person. My brother once said to me that he admires something in every person who is close to him and that is why he has chosen the friends he has. This made me think a lot. I am inspired and thus admire so many people for their unique qualities. I try modeling my life and how I behave on all the good attributes of those closest to me (naturally my family and friends). What is your most treasured possession? Photographs &#x2013; they remind me of shared warm memories. It&#x2019;s your round, what are you drinking? Hot water, lemon and honey... with my pi a colada. The song you wished you wrote? Thinking Out Loud - Ed Sheeran. Any nicknames? Carlz, CJ. If you were not a musician what would you do? An industrial psychologist during the week and hiking mountains on the weekends. Pick five words to describe yourself? Considerate, loving, genuine, adventurous, motivated. Five desert island discs? Christina Aguilera (Stripped) World Classic Rockers The Beatles The Carpenters Taylor Swift (Fearless) Greatest movie ever made? My Fair Lady. What song changed your life? River Deep Mountain High - Tina Turner. What is your favourite word? Adventure. Favourite fashion garment? A sarong - it's so versatile. Top of your bucket list? Singing internationally. Traveling countries by foot. Your greatest achievement? Being able to make my music passion a reality. What do you complain about most often? Early mornings (we have a love-hate relationship). What is your fear? Two things: losing those I love and living life blindly with no appreciation. On stage I tend to? Forget the worries and get lost in the music. If you are walking on stage for a keynote speech, what song would you use and why? Difficult to say which one but it would be a song that I felt shared an important message and one that I really enjoy to perform. Probably Walls. The best life lesson you have been taught? To live consciously and be grateful for those moments. Where would you like to be right now? On a tall rock overlooking the ocean during sunset time with friends and a delicious bottle of wine. Social media links Website | YouTube | Facebook | Instagram | Twitter