At such a tender age you have already amassed a fair amount of accolades, what have been some of your highlights? Entle: Performing at the Durban Jazz Festival last year in front of 15,000 people was an amazing experience. It was our biggest show to date and it was a great experience! We have also performed at great festivals such as Shisa Nyama Festival at Moses Mabhida fields and the White Mountain Festival in the Drakensberg. How was the band formed? Lasandra: Our manager saw me performing at the Durban Jazz Festival in 2015 as a solo performer and he and our drummer&#x2019;s dad had put together a band of some amazing young musicians &#x2013; Saiyan Naidoo, Sabian Singh, Neo Mooi and my two girls, Entle and Sipokazi. They needed a singer for the group and asked if I would join. I said yes and the rest is history! If your music could be described as a meal what would it be and why? Lasandra: Chicken curry and rice because there are many different elements in that meal but it tastes great. It&#x2019;s just like Kwini Kuza, we have many different elements but when you combine them it is great! What are your thoughts on Generation Z? Sipokazi: Our generation is very active, we love technology and love to communicate with our friends using technology. We don&#x2019;t think it is a bad thing because we still go out and play music, and have fun with our friends outside. What advice would you give to other young musicians trying to make it big? Entle: Work hard and stay focused. Practice your instrument a lot and don&#x2019;t forget about school, school is still the most important. As young South Africans, what, in your opinion, is the significance of Youth Month in 2017? Lasandra: We are very happy that the youth are being recognised as an important part of South African society. We have a lot to offer and we are the future of the country. Which social media channel is your favourite? Sipokzai: Snapchat and Instagram because we love to take selfies! What is your favourite emoji? Entle: The face that has heart eyes and a big mouth What&#x2019;s next for Kwini Kuza? Lasandra: We have an upcoming show in Johannesburg in July as well as shows in KZN. We are also working on a television project. We can&#x2019;t reveal anything yet but it is very exciting. We also have a major producer in America who wants to work with us so we are hoping that happens this year. Where do you see yourself in 10 years? All of the Kwini Kuza girls: We want to be a successful group that is heard all over the world. We would like to share our music with different cultures and represent South Africa with our songs. So, we see ourselves playing music and making people happy across the globe in 10 years&#x2019; time. Facebook: www.facebook.com/kwinikuza Instagram: www.instagram.com/kwinikuza YouTube: tinyurl.com/ly972da