Shaking ourselves off like dogs in the welcome warmth of the fireplace-lit reception area, complete with guestbook, umbrella stand and thoughtful beach bags for guests visiting in summer weather, we were cheerfully met and walked to our ground-floor room, where we instantly sensed there was underfloor heating. This was going to be a wonderful overnight stay! All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. Marveling at the old-school charm modernised with the latest tech touches &#x2013; think Tretchikoff ladies on the walls watching as we manoeuvred the fancy Caffeluxe pod machine and complimentary crunchies from South of Africa Group &#x2013; just like Ouma made them &#x2013; for a pre-explore much-needed boost. But don&#x2019;t just take my word for it, let the pictures do the talking&#x2026; Traditional Tretchikoff charm Every comfort has been thought of, from the latest issues of various magazines to jewel-bright furnishings, in-room temperature control, the underfloor heating I&#x2019;ve already mentioned all throughout the fluffy carpet and dark stone bathroom tiles, a discrete Samsung music centre with phone charging station, playing soothing Enya tunes; an incense burner with strawberry incense sticks; numerous candles with lighters, a tiny TV above the kitchen corner, a lovingly polished wooden vanity cabinet complete with sherry decanter, and my favourite &#x2013; fluffy bathrobes in the bathroom. The bathroom is a treat itself, complete with Abalone shell, life-size 'rubber duck' on a shelf and family of bath frogs if you're so inclined (they&#x2019;re not for kiddies as no-one under the age of 12 is allowed to stay). We marvelled at the deep tub for those not bothered by the Capes current water restrictions and corner shower stocked with citrus Healing Earth products as there&#x2019;s a Healing Earth spa on site. There's also a private patio with metal table and chairs, but the rain didn't let up long enough for us to dry off and use this lovely corner. I can honestly say we sat everywhere else &#x2013; at the plush fireside chairs in reception, in the bathtub, on the luxurious bed, and all over the floor, thanks to that heavenly underfloor heating. Yes, we made carpet angels. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. No sooner had we settled in and taken a flurry of photos &#x2013; complimentary Wi-Fi, tick &#x2013; than there was a knock on the shuttered door with view of the pool. We opened only to be met with a tray heaving with complimentary flutes of bubbly and plate of canap s. We ate, we sipped away and we took a quick nap to rejuvenate. Alerted to the fact that the rain had let off by chirpy birdsong and cheery rays of sun streaming in through the patio shutters, we made a fast track on foot &#x2013; first for the beach, then we set off to explore 'home' for the next 24 hours. There&#x2019;s a library/boardroom lined with attractive bookshelves packed to the brim with novels and Tretchikoff-themed scatter cushions, there&#x2019;s also a Jacuzzi on the roof, which we you need to book on check in to ensure it&#x2019;s hot enough by the time you want to settle in. I highlight recommend you do so, as sitting in a hot tub, with views of the winter-green sea, grey sky and white-washed seaside houses is my idea of winter bliss. I haven&#x2019;t even mentioned one of Abalone House&#x2019;s main attractions: Reubens&#x2019;. Fine Winter dining at Reuben's Treated to a three-course dinner at Reuben&#x2019;s that night, this was my best meal of the year so far. Swiftly seated at a candlelit table with a view of the sun setting over the sea, the pale-grey buttery leather menus held our focus for an age as the soft background music soothed us further. We eventually opted for a glass of Merlot from the extensive wine and beverage list, and I was delighted that they made me an icecream-y strawberry milkshake, despite these not being listed on the menu. Before long we were met with a tiny tasty amuse bouche of pulled pork with tangy ball of mayo. To eat then: We went for starters of the spicy tomato ragout meatballs with warm nutty Melba toast-style health bread, and the wild mushrooms with herb-crushed mash, served with baby salad leaves and mustard drizzle. The herb-crusted mash and mustard drizzle were the perfect forkful of warm, creamy tartness to prepare us for the meal ahead. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. For mains, we went all out &#x2013; it's not every day you get to sample Reuben Riffel's finest. So, it was the braised lamb shank with creamed spinach and honey-roasted butternut, as well as the soy-braised pork belly served with star anise-spiced carrot pur e, crackling-crispy pancetta, braised red cabbage. Despite the lamb shank literally falling off the bone the second the knife glanced it, we decided the star anise-spiced carrot pur e with apple and cranberry made the pork belly the star of the show. Despite being full to bursting we bravely soldiered on with dessert. We went with the malva pudding with just not-enough Amarula custard and balls of tangy granadilla sorbet, as well as the lemon cheesecake with drips of berry coulis and a delightfully light mint sorbet. Leave room for an accompanying cappuccino, kids. These are top-notch Terbodore lovelies and they seal the meal just perfectly. Completely sated, we headed back to our room to change then quickly dashed up to the roof-top Jacuzzi, which was finally warm enough for us. Back in our room the following hour we found the room fairies had been and turned down the covers, placed the gowns and slippers invitingly beside it and left a kiss of solid coconut chocolate heart. The sweetest way to ensure sweet dreams. Brilliant breakfast buffet Following a peaceful night's sleep we dressed quickly and made our way back to Reuben's for the breakfast I'd heard on good authority &#x2013; you can't get more trustworthy than your parents &#x2013; was outstanding. It sure was. In the morning light we noted the beautiful warm decor - stone floors, a red-and-orange lamp shaded candelabra, large red carpet and the chairs upholstered in red and orange fabric that was wonderful to nestle up against. Nestle we did while sipping on another pair of Terbodore cappuccinos, we were most pleased with ourselves for being first to arrive as it meant we got to claim seats at the prime table, gazing out the bay window at the windswept sea. Stomachs reminding us we were there to eat, we set to the task with gusto. Completely transformed from the previous night&#x2019;s romantic candle-lit setting, there's a long wooden table heaving with delicious continental fare like muesli, stewed fruit, dates and cashews, honey, croissants, cold meats, cheeses, ribbons of trout with lemon wedges and mini flapjacks topped with cream, sliced strawberries and bananas. You can supplement all this with a hot breakfast, like the egg-cellent eggs benedict served with almost-transparent slivers of salty Parma ham or go all out with the full traditional breakfast &#x2013; eggs, mushroom, tomato, bacon, toast and a hash brown. My husband happily swiped the Tabasco Sauce from the Bloody Mary stand to his spicy heart&#x2019;s content. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. All images Abalone House. Despite it being too cold to even dip a toe in the lovely poor we kept glimpsing outside our suite, this was just the winter break we needed &#x2013; I'm sure you do, too! Click here for the review on my blog. Visit Abalone House this Winter Make the most of Abalone House&#x2019;s current winter special, which offers two nights&#x2019; accommodation at the 5-star Abalone House boutique hotel, a one-hour spa treatment per person at the Healing Earth spa, breakfast on both mornings, a three-course dinner at Reuben&#x2019;s on the first night and a complimentary sundowner canap with glass of sparkling wine served in your room on the second night. The special costs R1,795 per person sharing per night and runs until 31 August 2017. Note that guests are only allowed to book the Jacuzzi until 8pm as it takes a few hours to heat up. We&#x2019;d recommend booking your session as soon as you check in. Have an early dinner, then spend the evening in the Jacuzzi as dinner orders are only taken until 8:30pm. *Leigh Andrews was a guest at Abalone House and Reuben&#x2019;s Paternoster. For more information on seasonal specials and to book (including your spa treatment time slot), call Abalone House and Spa direct on 022 752 2044; email az.oc.esuohenolaba&#64;ofni or visit www.abalonehouse.co.za. Alternatively, contact South of Africa&#x2019;s central reservations line on 087 820 5999.