EXSA is inviting all members and non-members to fire up the brain this chilly winter at its much anticipated 2017 conference. This is not only an opportunity to connect, engage, learn and grow, but with its customer-centric focus and jam-packed itinerary, participants will get an opportunity to take part in thought-provoking and interactive sessions. Phumlani Hlatshwayo, General Manager EXSATaking place between 9 and 11 July 2017, the conference will be held at the Askari Game Lodge & Spa, which is situated on the Plumari Africa Game Reserve in the Magaliesberg. The event kicks off on Sunday with a catch-up networking lunch - and the rest of the conference will include a game drive, a bush braai and a Petroglyph/rock paintings hike. There will also be networking lunches, a tourism breakfast, decadent dinners and plenty of time for refreshments and more networking in between. It is perhaps these activities and opportunities for discussion that are the most important aspect of the conference, as some people in this digitally interconnected world may question the value today of a live or face-to-face event. &#x201c;There are many great reasons to join industry-specific &#x2018;live&#x2019; events such as a conference,&#x201d; says Phumulani Hlatshwayo, GM of EXSA. &#x201c;Added to the fact that professional conferences deliver relevant content by industry peers and leaders and that attending the event significantly augments industry knowledge, the connections you make are key!&#x201d; adds Hlatshwayo. The itinerary for the weekend includes keynote presentations and interventions from a range of sought-after experts in the industry who will share insights, motivate and inspire. Learn about minimum standards for sustainable exhibitions with EGF&#x2019;s Greg McManus for example, and experience a panel discussion on OH&S: A Hot Button Topic first-hand. The forum sessions will allow for knowledge-sharing and discussion, ensuring that those in the industry to learn from one another and collaborate on innovative ideas and share lessons learnt. There are also incredible sponsorship opportunities available, giving companies a chance to affiliate themselves with the EXSA brand. Delegate cost: Members: R5,800 excl. VAT; Non-members: R6,520 excl. VAT; and Patron Members: R3,000 excl. VAT. Accommodation is limited so book now to avoid disappointment. First come, first served. Call EXSA on 011 805 7272 or az.oc.asxe&#64;ofni . Visit www.exsa.co.za.