Like any other industry, the vinyl sector is facing various challenges that it needs to address from an environmental, health and business point of view in an ever-evolving arena. SAVA is constantly reviewing its Product Stewardship Commitment to ensure that the association stays abreast of developments. Ian Lilja, Dr Brigitte Dero and Nigel Sarginson during a panel discussion. The conference featured global speakers who presented papers and answered questions raised by delegates - the lineup included Peter Willis, owner of &#x201c;Conversations that Count&#x201d; who delivered the keynote address; Ian Lilja of the Vinyl Council of Australia (VCA) who delivered an update on the VCA Product Stewardship Programme; and Dr Brigitte Dero, general manager of the European Council for Vinyl Manufacturers and VinylsPlus who provided an expert overview of the European Regulatory and Policy Context. Opportunities and developments Local experts such as Gerhard Kuhn, senior economist at the IDC, Renier Snyman of DPI Plastics, Tandy Coleman of Polyflor SA, and Mike Smart of Genesis Consulting provided insights into local challenges, opportunities and developments impacting the PVC industry. Another highlight of the conference was the SAVA Awards in recognition of member companies that have not only demonstrated a commitment to the Product Stewardship Commitment (PSC), but have also proven to be 100% compliant with all of its key undertakings. The PSC is a series of achievable commitments that addresses the industry&#x2019;s extended producer responsibility and supports the key focus areas of the association. Certificates were handed out to Adcock Ingram Critical Care, Alpha Plast, Belgotex Floors, Chemsystems, Chembridge Additives, Cibapac, Continental Compounders, DPI Plastics, Floorworx SA, Isegen SA, Marley Pipe Systems, Mpact Limited, NCP Chlorchem, Plastichem, Polyflor SA, SASOL Polymers and SunAce South Africa. Innovation in PVC Recycling Award A special 'Innovation in Recycling' trophy was awarded to Adcock Ingram Critical Care and Polyflor SA for their individual contributions to improving the recycling of PVC. The main criteria for this award was that the recipients had to present a recycling initiative that has not been introduced to the South African market before, but will in the long run contribute greatly to an increase in the recycling of post-consumer PVC waste. To this end, both Adcock Ingram and Polyflor SA stood out with the innovative work they are doing in the recycling of non-hazardous PVC products in hospitals and healthcare centres, and the recycling of vinyl floor off-cuts respectively.