 dotshock via 123RFWith a lineup of presentations that will focus on key industry interests - from the state of the global fresh produce industry to consumers trends - the conference and trade show provides insight for business growth. &#x201c;The plenary sessions and workshops are a fundamental part of the conference and trade show. The aim is to create a platform for discussion of key issues affecting the South African agricultural sector - allowing delegates to network, exchange ideas and be better informed,&#x201d; says Lindie Stroebel, general manager of PMA Southern Africa. Not to be missed - Zyda Rylands, CEO of Woolworths Added to the exciting lineup of speakers is Zyda Rylands - dynamic CEO of Woolworths. Rylands has held several key positions at Woolworths, including director of People and Transformation, chief operating office: support services and managing director for foods. During her tenure at Woolworths Foods, Rylands achieved a significant growth of 83% in turnover and 240% in profits for the business. Her wealth of experience in the industry makes the presentation on 16 June one that should not be missed. Growing talent The Center for Growing Talent by PMA (CGT by PMA) &#x2013; with a mission to attract, develop and retain industry talent - will be hosting three programmes this year, focusing on career insights and growing professional networks: the Young Professionals Breakfast, the Women&#x2019;s Fresh Perspectives Event and a Career Pathways programme which brings university students to explore careers in fresh produce. The Women&#x2019;s Fresh Perspectives Event will have an education component for the first time, featuring Dr. Tyi McCray&#x2019;s presentation on unconscious bias followed by a panel discussion. The closing dinner speaker promises to provide an exciting ending to the day. Workshops The Trade Show, nearly doubled for 2017, provides an opportunity for delegates to attend additional workshops. These workshops will run concurrently and cover topics such as Climate Smart Agriculture: Focus on Technology and Special Focus on Logistics and Supply Chain Trends in the morning; Advising Fresh Produce Trade in Africa and Responsible Sourcing: Focus on Standards and Practices in the afternoon. &#x201c;Fresh Connections: Southern Africa Conference & Trade Show, is the only conference and trade show that hosts the entire fresh produce supply chain Southern in Africa. From retailers and exporters to growers, this is an ideal platform for like-minded audiences to step up their thinking to the most recent trends and developments,&#x201d; concludes Stroebel. Learn more about Fresh Connections: Southern Africa Conference and Trade Show and register online.