 Cannes Lions FacebookCreativity for good includes Nobel Peace Prize winner The role of creativity in the economy, society and culture is a major theme at this year&#x2019;s Festival &#x2013; reinforcing the Cannes Lions campaign for creativity as a positive force for business, for change and for good in the world. Nobel Peace Prize winner and president of the Republic of Columbia, Juan Manuel Santos, joins Weber Shandwick&#x2019;s chairman Jack Leslie to explore lessons learned from the Colombian civil war and resultant peace treaty, and how to tackle the world&#x2019;s toughest brief &#x2013;peace making; while Oscar-winning star, Dame Helen Mirren joins L&#x2019;Or al to deliberate redefining diversity. In addition, Christine Lagarde, MD of the International Monetary Fund, will join Maurice L vy, chairman of the Supervisory Board, Publicis Groupe to ask whether &#x201c;creativity can change the world?&#x201d; Research, debate The unveiling of new research by McKinsey & Company opens the Festival. Drawing on 16 years of Cannes Lions data, the analysis provides evidence that creativity drives business value and growth. The analysis will ground the discussion around creativity, innovation and its connection to business performance and the full findings will be announced live on stage. This year&#x2019;s Cannes Debate, hosted by WPP founder and CEO Sir Martin Sorrell, focuses on the intersecting worlds of sport, cinema and marketing communications. Sir Martin Sorrell shares the stage with Ron Howard, Academy Award-winning filmmaker and Robert Kraft, Founder, chairman, CEO, The Kraft Group. Creative mobile work Creative mobile work that connects people and builds communities is the theme of a Facebook session with Sheryl Sandberg, COO, Facebook; Jonathan Mildenhall, CMO, Airbnb; and Colleen DeCourcy, global COO, Wieden & Kennedy. Further speakers sharing insights with the Cannes Lions community include: model Karlie Kloss and Hearst; writer and actress Lena Waithe; and photographer Mario Testino hosted by Edelman. Specialist events Three specialist events - Lions Health (17-18 June), Lions Innovation (19-20 June) and Lions Entertainment (21-22 June) - are also packed with freshly announced names: Lions Innovation introduces burlesque dancer, model and entrepreneur Dita Von Teese who will be the star of a data intervention live on stage. Halle Berry discusses how emerging media platforms and technology can connect global audiences to personalised interactions and experiences. Tommy Hilfiger&#x2019;s chief brand officer, Avery Baker, is opening the event, sharing best practices on driving a culture of innovation into brands through talent and tech partnerships.Lions Entertainment sees global music, film, TV, gaming and sports talent in the line-up: A$AP Rocky, alongside Viacom; Run the Jewels, presented by Pulse Films; and Steven Gerrard talks with Casey Wasserman about broadening sports off the pitch. Further entertainment heavyweights in the programme include Ellie Goulding, Russell Simmons, AB InBev, Nick Jonas, Ryan Tedder and Gabourey Sidibe. In addition, Alicia Silverstone and Mena Suvari talk about the power of scripted entertainment alongside Paramount.Lions Health introduces Jason DeLand, Founding Partner and Joint Global CEO of Anomaly, who will explore the anthropology of cannabis and how our relationship with the herb is set to evolve. Award-winning photographer Platon, alongside Elliot Langerman, NYC chief creative commercialisation officer for Klick Inc, will explore how through photography, Platon brings out human truths and real personalities and considers how to use these tactics in a world where leaders increasingly depend on authenticity. In addition, in a session led by Pfizer, corporate affairs and reputation communications senior leaders, Dana Gandsman and Ed Harnaga, will demonstrate how they have used creativity to redefine what the company stands for and change Pfizer&#x2019;s reputation for the better. More highlights Jose Papa, MD of Cannes Lions, said, &#x201c;The Cannes Lions community deserves the very best content and I&#x2019;m delighted to announce our eight-day programme that&#x2019;s full of thought-provoking, entertaining and game-changing speaker sessions. More than 600 speakers come from around the world to tell stories of how creativity can be a force for business, change and good in the world. It is a privilege to welcome them to the Festival. I know this year&#x2019;s audiences are in for something special.&#x201d; China Day, a one-day programme of talks dedicated to Chinese innovation and creativity, takes place on Tuesday, 20 June in the Palais Forum. Speakers include SY Lau, Tencent&#x2019;s senior executive VP, chairman of Tencent Advertising and chairman of group marketing and global branding, discussing the future of marketing and tech in China. Papi Jiang, No 1 online celebrity and vlogger with one of China&#x2019;s largest fan bases, pioneering pianist and cultural icon Lang Lang, alongside Universal Music Group, talk about Creative Inspiration from China. Dr Charles Zhang, founder, chairman of the board of directors and CEO of sohu.com discusses transforming online media and entertainment in a big data era.The new Cannes Lions podcast series &#x2013; hosted by The New School&#x2019;s Open Campus, and produced in partnership with Somethin&#x2019; Else &#x2013; features academics, industry experts and visionary creative spirits unpacking the questions that make creative minds tick. The podcasts will be recorded live from the Palais from 19 -23 June and will be available to access following the recording. For more information, click here.