&#x201c;Sandton Central is South Africa&#x2019;s cosmopolitan centre of trade, ideas, interaction and lifestyle. Excellent accessibility plays a key role in this. Ensuring that people can easily come to work, visit, stay, shop, or be entertained in Sandton Central is something we take seriously. We strive to provide an exceptional experience,&#x201d; says Elaine Jack, city improvement district manager of the Sandton Central Management District (SCMD), which manages the public urban spaces in the area. The Marlboro Rea Vaya bus and pedestrian bridge Almost complete, this bridge is for exclusive use by Rea Vaya buses and pedestrians. It will launch in September/October 2017. The bridge is already open for pedestrians. Rea Vaya buses will have exclusive use of the bridge when the Rea Vaya Phase 1C(a) operations begin in October 2018. The bridge will make it possible for buses and pedestrians to move swiftly from Johannesburg CBD via Wynberg and Alexandra over the M1 and into Sandton Central. The Grayston pedestrian and cyclist bridge This non-motorist bridge for walking and cycling is under construction over the M1 highway at Grayston Drive. It will be completed by October this year. This bridge aims to provide a convenient and safe walking and cycling trip for people moving between Alexandra, Wynberg and Sandton Central daily. The bridge is part of a five kilometre dedicated walk and cycle route that starts in No 3 Square in the heart of Alexandra and ends in Sandton Central. The route also intersects with the Watt Street Rea Vaya station, which is next to Pan Africa Mall. Thus, it helps people walk safely to this important station which connects Alexandra with the Joburg CBD (inner-city) and Sandton Central. The Zandspruit bridge Big improvements to this bridge have opened up a former bottleneck for private vehicles at a very popular access point to Sandton Central. Widening the Zandspruit Bridge and Katherine Street all the way to the M1 highway Marlboro Drive off/on ramp is said to have already improved traffic mobility between Sandton Central and the M1 Marlboro off/on ramp.