The SEDEX Audit encompasses all aspects of responsible business practice, including labour standards, health and safety, the environment and business ethics. &#x201c;We are proud of this achievement because it puts Addis on par with top international producers, when it comes to implementing responsible business practice,&#x201d; says Addis CEO, Errol Stern. The most recent SEDEX audit was conducted according to the SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 5.0 protocol, which is the most comprehensive review of the audit format to date. The new version of SMETA aims to empower auditors further to assess the implementation of labour standards and health safety management accurately at a workplace site. The protocol&#x2019;s recent updates place the worker at the centre of the audit process and include a new section on workplace human rights, improved guidance around interviewing migrant workers and the inclusion of trade union or worker committee involvement in the audit process. Dr Chris Brendon conducted the audit on behalf of DQS South Africa, a member of German DQS Holding international certification company. Family values Addis is a family run business (now in its fourth generation) with a strong sense of heritage and values dating back to 1914. It is repeatedly rated as one of the country's most trusted brands, with recent market research measuring brand awareness among local consumers at more than 90%. Among the company&#x2019;s values, which include consistency, quality and reliability, is a strong belief in the development of employees and a passion for developing the skills of individuals that will not only improve their individual lives but contribute to the growth and development of the economy. Numerous members of its team &#x2013; from senior management to factory workers &#x2013; have had opportunities to further their education, thereby advancing their careers and enabling them to transcend historical disadvantages. The company now provides employment for 700 people.