Increased global competition leads to increase in MBA applications AMBA chief executive Andrew Main Wilson cited increased competition stemming from globalisation as a potential driver for this iconic rise in MBA applications, following a 14 percent decline between 2010 and 2014. MBA applications in Africa, however, increased by four percent over the period, testifying to the prestige still placed on the MBA in developing nations. As the pool of MBA applicants and competition for programme entry rise, prospective students have started to invest in alternative options. These include online studying, bridging courses and core competency programmes. The rise of online MBA courses Whilst traditional MBA applications only experienced an increase in demand recently, the number of schools offering online MBA-level programmes grew by 44 percent from 2011 to 2016.2 In addition to lower tuition fees, studying an MBA online has the allure of flexible learning and being able to implement one&#x2019;s learnings immediately in the business environment. The Graduate Management Admissions Council (GMAC), owners of the GMAT entry test, believe that the steadily increasing numbers of online MBA applicants can be attributed to a decline in employer funding for traditional MBA degrees - with funding shifting toward digital skills development.3 This could not make more sense. Why would organisations pay more for their employees to study a traditional MBA, when online MBA degrees carry as much weight, costs less and allow the employees to continue working whilst studying? This adds credence to the Princeton Review survey that found 44 percent of students received a promotion whilst studying their online MBA.4 Online MBA courses in Africa South Africa became the first country to offer an MBA outside of the United States, in 1949.5 In 2016, headlines were made again when the University of Stellenbosch Business School (USB) became the first South African business school to offer real-time online lectures for its MBA - allowing students to study from anywhere in the world. Using real-time streaming, students abroad are able to participate in classroom discussions, as if physically present, and are able to benefit from a flexible learning structure. In early 2017, a Stellenbosch University private company, the University of Stellenbosch Business School Executive Development (USB-ED), also achieved the status of pioneer: becoming the first institution in Africa to offer an MBA CORe online short course. This begs the question: What is an MBA CORe? The MBA CORe (Certificate of Readiness) is a dual-purpose online short course, preparing students for a full MBA degree and granting working professionals the opportunity to expand their managerial skillsets and professional networks. Presented in partnership with online education leaders, GetSmarter, the course covers three of the most challenging subjects of any MBA: economics, quantitative methods, and managerial accounting. These three topics also form the foundation of business operations and strategy - giving students the knowledge and tools to navigate the complexities of their business environment and make better managerial decisions. Using a practical, case study approach - with the option to use one&#x2019;s own business as a case study - students learn from industry professionals and MBA graduates over the course of 16 weeks, entirely online and at their own pace. Moreover, the MBA CORe is a fraction of the price of a traditional or online MBA, allowing those who cannot afford an MBA at present to gain some of the harder business skills learnt during the Master&#x2019;s programme. Those who can afford it are able to gauge their appetite for the full degree, with an understanding of the level of commitment required, and those enrolling in an MBA can use the course as a springboard for the challenging subjects they&#x2019;re destined to face. This offers a unique opportunity for organisations that fund employees&#x2019; MBAs: Whilst online MBAs help cut costs compared to traditional MBAs, the MBA CORe could be used as a screening process, allowing organisations to: avoid investing in staff who don&#x2019;t complete their MBAs, identify potential MBA achievers and offer the allusive Master&#x2019;s programme to a wider employee pool. </li></li>As learning continues to shift online, the number of online MBAs on offer is set to continue increasing as individuals and companies alike look to save on tuition and reap the benefits of flexible learning programmes. Similarly, we can expect to see an uptake of bridging and core competency programmes - such as the MBA CORe - as education becomes available to a wider and more diverse audience. 1source: timeshighereducation.com 2source: aacsbblogs.typepad.com 3source: businessbecause.com 4source: forbes.com 5source: mba.co.za