James McNab. Image via CAJ News AfricaAs a member-driven industry association, WASPA annually elects the office bearers who will volunteer their time in pursuit of its mandate of representing the industry and protecting the mobile consumer. The WASPA chairman takes strategic direction from the WASPA management committee while a series of quarterly meetings, regular communiques and other built-in mechanisms help provide oversight. This year, James McNab receives the chairman's baton from Casper de Villiers who has spent eight years serving in various roles within WASPA's management committee. He has been at the helm of the non-profit body since the departure of the founding chair, Leon Perlman, in 2013. He is scaling back his work and voluntary commitments to spend more time with his young family. WASPA's democratic voting process, in which all full members were entitled to cast their votes at its Annual General Meeting (AGM), also saw portfolios assigned to the Association's newly-installed Management Committee. All office bearer positions are elected by WASPA's Management Committee which votes for potential candidates. Management committee The elected 2017 WASPA management committee is as follows: James McNab (chairman) Anthony Ekerold (vice chairman, Legal) Greg Brophy (treasurer, Finance) Rory Anderson (communications) Conrad Geldenhuys (code of conduct) Tanya Howard (lobbying) Kobus Vos (membership)</li></li></li></li></li></li>Ilonka Badenhorst will continue to manage the day-to-day activity of WASPA in her capacity as general manager. She will drive the strategic objectives of the organisation as set out by the board following input from members. Says McNab, "I am delighted to welcome so much vibrant new talent to WASPA in 2017. It's testimony to WASPA's solid reputation that so many well-regarded industry players see the value of volunteering their time and skills to growing our industry in responsible ways." A major benefit of membership is that by aligning their activities with the WASPA Code of Conduct, WASPs can simultaneously be in compliance with several important pieces of legislation. The Code has purposely been drafted to be in line with the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act (ECTA), the Consumer Protection Act (CPA) and the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPI). A non-profit organisation, WASPA was founded on 26 August 2004 in South Africa. Its role is fully-supported and its Code of Conduct is endorsed by SA network operators: Cell C, MTN, Vodacom and Telkom Mobile. Fostering consumer confidence in the WASP industry through responsible self-regulation is a key focus of the Association.