The 18,500 sqm modern mall, with potential for a future 10,000 sqm expansion, will give the city of Kumasi its first one-stop environment with shopping and entertainment under one roof. Its formal launch will take place in early May 2017, in the presence of the King of the Ashanti Empire, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II Asantehene. Cobus van Heerden, of Atterbury Property Development, says, &#x201c;This is the first big development we have undertaken in Kumasi and it has been a pleasure doing business here. &#x201c;We are optimistic about Ghana and Kumasi City Mall, notwithstanding the challenging economic context in West Africa and competition. There is a growing positive feeling about Ghana in the market. With its new president, there is also renewed confidence and positive sentiment about Ghana. Kumasi City Mall is perfectly timed for this upsurge in confidence.&#x201d; Major tenants Virtually fully let, Kumasi City Mall&#x2019;s anchor tenants are Shoprite and Walmart brand Game, with the new shopping centre supporting the growth of both retailers in the region. Its retail mix includes food, convenience, banking, services, fashion, electronics and a cinema, club and children&#x2019;s games for entertainment, with a long list of local retail names. The mall&#x2019;s tenant mix and architecture combine to create a unique setting, perfectly matched to the shopping trends of the local Ashanti, as well as visitors to the region. Kumasi Mall is enclosed on either end, with a semi-enclosed food court at its heart. &#x201c;Its food court serves as an excellent third anchor. It responds to the outgoing and social nature of the people of Kumasi by offering a dining and entertainment space with generous seating and shaded areas,&#x201d; explains van Heerden. Easy access, local empowerment With access from the eastern bypass of the city&#x2019;s main ring road, Kumasi City Mall is between the dual carriageway Lake Road, Hudson Road, Yaa Asantewa Road and Kofi Adomako Street. It has a prominent road frontage, undercover and on-grade parking and is accessible from both a specially created slip lane off Lake Road and at its intersection with Hudson Road. There is also a large taxi drop-off and pick-up facility right in front of the mall. The word &#x2018;Kumasi&#x2019; means flower, which is portrayed in the mall&#x2019;s logo. True to its name, this retail asset has blossomed over its 24-month development period, making a positive impact in its community, bringing opportunities for employment and giving a boost to the local economy. All firms in Kumasi City Mall&#x2019;s professional team operated with local partners for the delivery of professional services. The mall&#x2019;s development and construction has boosted jobs in the area and will continue to do so as part of its ongoing operation. JV architecture reflects its setting Designed in a joint venture between South African architect practice Boogertman + Partners and Ghanaian practice MultiCAD, the mall incorporates steel, concrete, and wood, in an elegant design inspired by an African tree, which branches out to create a roof canopy. Together, its many different tree-shaped columns create a forest, illuminated by plenty of natural light. &#x201c;Kumasi City Mall&#x2019;s leading design is inspired by its setting, which makes it an asset to be proud of. We are proud of Kumasi City Mall and confident that it will make a real difference for its community,&#x201d; concludes van Heerden. Another two Atterbury shopping centre developments in sub-Saharan Africa are set to open in the next six months. In partnership with Tradehold Africa, Atterbury is developing the 7,000 sqm Pemba Shopping in Mozambique that is set to open in June. In partnership with Safland International, Atterbury is also developing the 27,000 sqm Dunes Mall in Walvis Bay, Namibia, that is scheduled to open in October this year.