click to enlargeTopco set to work, and sought a brand name that would encapsulate Africa and the African firms that had made major advancements in business. The result was Impumelelo, a Xhosa/Zulu term for success through working together. President Nelson Mandela gave the initiative a letter of support and, from that base, Topco began to publish an annual publication that has since listed pre-researched and externally-audited top black businesses year after year; created a legacy of inspiration and built up a repository of the opinions and visions of this era's national icons from business and government. So what can readers expect from the 17th annual edition of Impumelelo: Top Empowerment Companies, released in the same month as the government announced a new push for radical socio-economic transformation? The publication includes insights from Zodwa Ntuli, Acting Commissioner of the B-BBEE Commission, on the state of transformation. Dr Rob Davies, Minister of Trade and Industry is interviewed and speaks about our journey towards an inclusive economy. The iconic Dr Mathews Phosa discusses his passion for education - and the crucial role it plays in materially accelerating transformation. Ms. Naledi Pandor, Minister of Science and Technology, shares her passion for transformation in the science and technology sphere. The publication explores, in depth, South Africa's oceans economy; our country's 3000 km-long coastline is currently riding the crest of a wave of development under the governmental masthead of Operation Phakisa. We examine whether the construction of renewable energy sources - or nuclear power plants - will get the green light in the quest to secure S.A.'s future energy supply. And include the listing of the Top Empowered companies in the country. A year in the making, and a closely-watched barometer for where transformation, and South Africa, is headed, the initial print run of the latest edition of Impumelelo: Top Empowerment Companies is about to be circulated to the top tiers of government at national, local and municipal level, and to key decision makers and thought leaders in the private sector. It will be available for retail purchase at leading newsagents, and at major airports towards the end March 2017. Meanwhile, subscriptions are available at http://topempowerment.co.za. For any queries about the Top Empowerment publication, please contact 086 000 9590 or email az.oc.tnemrewopmepot&#64;gnitekram . </li></li></li></li>