Having opened in October last year, Lume is a one stop shop for all your relaxing, reviving and primping needs. Offering a hair salon (with private section for secretive celebs), luxurious mani and pedi stations and two treatment rooms for massages, facials, eyelash extensions and anti-aging treatments, you need look no further when wanting to treat yo&#x2019;self from head to toe. Glam gilding On entering Lume one is immediately struck by the design and d cor, shimmering golds and sharp angles contrast with white marble and crushed silver velvet. A minimal palette of gold, white and black keeps everything looking sleek and modern. No surprise then to find out that the Atelier was designed by internationally recognised architects; Stefan Antoni Olmesdahl Truen Architects (SAOTA). I was lucky enough to be treated to a 60min Aroma Fusion Massage by the capable Kaitlyn Eans last week. This is a personalised massage that utilises herbal and botanical aromas that soothe and uplift. The therapists cater this massage to your exact needs, focussing on areas that need a good knot kneading and adjusting the pressure throughout according to your preferences as well as adjusting the heating, lighting and music to your taste. Pressure points Besides incorporating the usual rolling, kneading and stroking movements, the Aroma Fusion Massage also includes a key pressure point massage, where the therapist firmly presses fingers in specific areas of the body; at the base of the neck, spine, hands and feet. To be honest I found this part of the massage pretty uncomfortable bordering on painful, in particular the back of my neck, which even felt a little tender the next day. However I also felt incredibly loose and my usually stiff shoulders and neck were tension free. Pressure point massages help boost circulation and release tension. Not only offering treatments, Lume also stocks an extensive array of beauty and skin products including high-end products such as Oribe, Biologique Recherche, Acad mie Scientifique de Beaut , Terres D&#x2019;Afrique and more. You can check their site for more info on these products. So when you&#x2019;re next in need of a treat day, make sure to make a day of it at Lume Beauty Atelier. For more info or to make a booking go to www.lumebeauty.com