Human Resources (HR) is fast becoming one of the most influential corporate spheres, from constructing corporate brand identities and aligning strategic organisational goals to ensuring the implementation of government legislation. According to Deloitte, a number of converging issues are driving the need to "rewrite the rules&#x201d;, led by technology's unprecedented rate of advancement. Individuals are relatively quick to adapt to ongoing innovations, but organisations move at a slower pace. Even today, many still retain industrial-age structure and practices that are long outdated. In essence, the business environment overall is changing - and businesses have to adapt to thrive. One of the biggest trends for 2017 is to focus on people and innovation. There is a massive shift taking place, whereby HR is evolving from being transactional in nature, to being strategic - meaning that developing organisational human capital is no longer just the role of HR but stretches through all departments within a company. Companies are realising that their people are their biggest asset - and that the culture they build with their people is the springboard for future success. A high-performance initiative strategic companies can't afford to missSet for 19-20 July 2017 and supported by media partner HR Pulse, the annual Future of HR Summit & Awards is once again preparing to advance the crucial HR component in both South Africa's private and public sectors.This year's event, in association with Careers24, will address: How to attract and retain top millennial talentThe next global HR trends in digitisation, holistic wellbeing, high performance culture-building, skills development, recruitment, rewards and recognitionThe latest innovative approaches to overcoming challengesPractical strategies for raising employee engagement How to meet the expectations of today's digital workforce &#x201c;It is a privilege for Careers24 to be associated with the Future of HR event for the third successive year. The summit has grown in leaps and bounds and the content this year is bound to top the popular sessions of last year.&#x201d; - Careers24 General Manager Marc Privett The Careers24 partnership aims to develop the HR community through knowledge-sharing and networking. The Summit will divide participants into breakaway sessions sponsored by Nissan, Alexander Forbes, ArcelorMittal, Sun International and Schneider Electric, to workshop the role that HR practitioners must fulfill in adapting companies to meet local challenges, global developments and the new strategy-driven HR landscape. Meanwhile, the Awards will showcase the success stories of today's HR visionaries. Click here to become a Future of HR sponsor and join some of SA's most esteemed business leaders and companies at the forefront of business advancement. For media enquiries, contact az.oc.ocpot&#64;yecal.elyk