 ximagination 123RF.comSAIPA is encouraging teachers to submit names of Grade 11 and Grade 12 learners currently taking Accounting as a school subject, and who wish to follow a B.Com degree as further study, to enter for the competition. There is no limit on the number of entries per school and a registration fee of R50 per learner applies. &#x201c;The Grade 11 paper is being introduced for the first time this year and we encourage schools to take advantage of this change. The entry fee will be waived for no fee schools. Entry forms can be requested from az.oc.otrevorp&#64;apias ,&#x201d; says Zobuzwe Ngobese, the marketing and business development executive at SAIPA. The aim of the SAIPA NAO is to make Accounting as a subject a preferred choice to all students, and to promote the option of professional accountancy as a sound choice for further study, and the pathway towards a financially and personally rewarding entry into employment. Early career boost An added benefit is that the NAO also provides learners with a foot in the door with future employers, which is why SAIPA invests substantially in it. The first round exam paper of the 2017 competition is scheduled for 17 May at the learners&#x2019; respective schools. All learners who qualify for the final round will be invited to participate on 2 August. The final round will determine the top provincial and national winners. &#x201c;Last year&#x2019;s NAO was a great success with over 3,500 pupils participating from around the country, and excelling on many levels. The competition generated provincial and national winners who were honoured at a formal Gala Awards evening in Johannesburg. We always endeavour to keep track of the winners&#x2019; progress throughout their tertiary education to ensure that our intervention is continuous and sustainable and not just a once-off event,&#x201d; concludes Ngobese. For more information on the National Accounting Olympiad, or to request an entry form, please email: az.oc.otrevorp&#64;apias