Barend BarnardTell us about the Lanzerac brand and what it stands for Lanzerac is a historic brand/estate in Jonkershoek, Stellenbosch. We are renowned for being the first commercially available Pinotage in the world, our 1959 vintage Lanzerac Pinotage was released in 1961. The micro-climate and soils on the banks of both sides of the Eerste River lend itself towards great quality Chardonnay, Chenin Blanc, Pinotage, Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon - these are our brand pillars. Lanzerac has been known for its unmissable history and prestige, being proudly Stellenbosch and striving to produce the best Pinotage in South Africa. Is there a major difference in working with the Lanzerac brand as an estate and a wine brand respectively? If so, how do you approach the brand from the two different perspectives? The Lanzerac story needs to be told on many levels of lifestyle in the Winelands. The five-star Lanzerac Hotel; recently renovated spa, Governors Hall Restaurant, the delicatessen adjacent to the wine tasting centre, boardrooms, wedding venues and award-winning wines portrays the luxury and prestige of a working wine estate in the heart of Stellenbosch. All these wine lifestyle elements are in line with the same goal in mind: being prestigious and connected to a five-star product. What&#x2019;s new with the Lanzerac brand? Our brand will always be tied to our rich history dating back to 1692, but we are continuously pushing boundaries on ever-changing market trends, wine styles and the latest changes clients expect of a growing brand. On the wine side, we have discontinued our entry level range of wines and are expanding our premium range. An artisanal range of wines will follow with some exciting packaging, amazing quality wines, and once again, tying in the history and prestige Lanzerac is known for. Lanzerac What&#x2019;s on your wish-list for brand objectives for 2017? Rather do than wish. We are set to over deliver on quality, service, and packaging; to service both on-consumption and off-consumption clientele alike; to grow within our domestic and international markets; to give clients a luxurious five-star experience when visiting the estate and to tell the Lanzerac story to lifestyle patrons. What do you love most about the Lanzerac brand? Lanzerac is a place with heart and soul, an iconic product of quality, set out to accomplish the best the Cape Winelands has on offer. What do you love most about the South African consumer and how they interact with the Lanzerac brand? The South African wine and lifestyle consumer needs to be intrigued with new additions to our products all the time - never to forget the past, but always being exciting, informative and innovative.