Nick SarnadasThis example is still very apt in today&#x2019;s environment, where every business aspect is embracing digitalisation, and those who are not, fear being left behind with their prolonged existence at risk. By the same token, today&#x2019;s marketeers must speak a different language and communicate this through digital channels in order to reach a new species of customer &#x2013; the digital native. No longer can marketing make the &#x201c;old&#x201d; world their playing field, but they need to venture out and seek greener pastures beyond. Academic institutions are realising this too, with numerous courses on online marketing and social media being offered. Companies are placing job adverts seeking the right people to drive their online and social media campaigns, and those with digital knowledge are the ones assured of a workplace. Fact is, digitalisation impacts marketing strategies. It is a means to expand your business and to reach new customers. Digitalisation is changing entire business models and is offering value-added opportunities. You simply cannot miss the boat and risk being left behind. Promoting and selling products and services over the internet is critical. It is the New Economy, and the explosion of the internet and its users attests to this. Businesses are no longer bringing products and services to the market, they are also no longer marketing to customers. The golden key today is collaboration in marketing. It&#x2019;s about building partnerships and relationships. Working together with your customers. Media today is being consumed via the internet. You need to ensure that your business can be found on this platform, just think Google searches. You therefore need to work with your customer to help them find what they seek. This makes your social media strategy as well as your policy paramount to your business. The consumer has become someone who wants answers now; no matter where or when. They want to play with the information available to them, gain value from it, and, they want it personalised &#x2013; about them and their circumstances. Above all, they want this whole process to be fast and painless. You are today talking to an immeasurable customer base located anywhere in the world. We understand that this is tricky. It is not just about having the app and the backbone, it is about entwining the people to this technology. To assist you in making sense of digitalisation in marketing and to gain greater insight into this journey, we have created Madex, a show presenting the next step in marketing evolution. This is the place to be on Wednesday, 7 June 2017, and Thursday, 8 June 2017, and will take place at the Sandton Convention Centre. Please visit www.madex.co.za for more information and to register for your free attendance. We look forward to catching that boat with you.