 rawpixel 123RF.com&ldquo;As technology steers the market toward predictive maintenance and diagnostics, manufacturers should tap into a growing demand for efficient, automated, smart pumps that are environment-friendly and can seamlessly integrate with smart grids and the internet of things,&rdquo; said Frost &amp; Sullivan Industrial Automation &amp; Process Control industry analyst Arun Prasath. $28.57bn by 2023 Analysis of the Global Centrifugal Pumps Market, Forecast to 2023, part of Frost &amp; Sullivan&rsquo;s Industrial Automation &amp; Process Control Growth Partnership subscription, finds that global centrifugal pumps' market revenue is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 2.5% and reach $28.57bn by 2023. The research analysis covers key areas like drivers, restraints and competitors, with market share and revenue by end-user industry and product type. A detailed regional breakdown, covering North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and Asia-Pacific, has been provided. In 2016, the top seven participants accounted for 26.1% of global revenues. Manufacturers such as Flowserve, Sulzer, KSB, Grundfos Holding A/S, ITT, Weir Group, and Xylem Inc. compete on price, technical capabilities, reliability and aftersales support services. Current regional developments include:Asia Pacific accounted for 40.6% of total pump sales and has the highest growth rate among other regions due to high demand for mechanical seals in China and India.&nbsp;North America&rsquo;s revenues are expected to increase by 0.5% in 2017, primarily as a result of investment in the water and wastewater and chemical segments.&nbsp;Europe accounts for 29.2% of the total pump sales and has high potential for aftermarket services.Energy efficiency is expected to play an important role in Europe, along with investment to improve and upgrade water and wastewater infrastructure.Manufacturing activities are shifting from Western Europe to Central and Eastern Europe, which offer cost advantages in terms of operations and labour.The Middle East and Africa account for 9.3% of total pump sales, with sales growth highly dependent on oil and gas and water and wastewater segments.Latin America accounts for 6.2% of total pump sales and is the smallest market for centrifugal pumps.Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina are market hot spots. &ldquo;Existing market conditions have had a negative impact on the centrifugal pumps market. Pump manufacturers should diversify their product segments and shift their focus towards end users with higher growth opportunities, such as the chemical process and water and waste sectors,&rdquo; said Prasath.