With the lack of job opportunities and the uncertainty of financial stability being a constant plight for many South Africans, small business owners are starting to realise the importance of retaining their current clientele and ensuring satisfactory profits. It has been estimated that the total economic output of small business in the country is 50% of GDP with a further estimation that it provides employment of about 60% of the labour force. It is therefore not surprising that these outlets, also referred to as spaza shops, are seen as a relatively big contributor to the economy and to many, a lucrative business option in the various townships. Albeit it a great opportunity for budding entrepreneurs, these small business owners are left with several challenges which include budgeting, creating a successful outlet and marketing their business. Boosting profitability &#x201c;This initiative, which forms part of our business mandate to uplift and develop our communities, imparts the necessary knowledge and fundamentals on local small business owners with regards to running a successful outlet. It comprises a one-day free training session, whereby business owners get a better understanding of what a successful outlet and outlet owner looks like, in turn making the necessary changes to ensure profitability for their business,&#x201d; says Nadine Warwick, CCBSA district manager for Pretoria. According to CCBSA, numerous studies that have been conducted since 2008 indicate that owners attending a similar training programme are likely to increase their sales. Many other training sessions are expected to take place in other areas such as Ga-Rankuwa, Hammanskraal and Pretoria CBD. Bernard Mathole, who has been a small business owner for the past 15 years, said, &#x201c;I am very glad that I was invited to this training in Soshanguve. This training gives me an added advantage over my competitors and allows me to be more versatile in how I conduct business. I am able to fight against the poverty that is affecting many of my fellow brothers and sisters and expand on my abilities as a businessman.&#x201d; &#x201c;We value enterprise development and community development very highly in the business and we will continue seeking viable ways to ensure that we as a corporate citizen do our best to assist and nurture skills where possible, concludes Warwick.