This year&#x2019;s Grand Jury of 116 prominent international radio industry executives represents 20 countries on six continents. The 40+ women on the jury are directors, producers, journalists, writers and sound artists who are passionate about excellence and innovation. Pixabay Worldwide since 1982, New York Festivals International Radio Programme Awards honours the World&#x2019;s Best Radio Programmes, receiving entries from radio stations, networks and independent producers from over 30 countries around the globe. The roster of companies represented in the Grand Jury is among the worldwide leaders in news, sports, entertainment, the arts and promo. They include BBC, CBC, RTE, Swedish Radio, CBS, SiriusXM, ABC Australia, Radio Television Hong Kong, Radio Rivadavia, Hessischer Rundfunk, KBS, Radio Mirchi, Radio Educacion, MY FM, DB Corp Ltd., RNIB, Radio New Zealand, Radio Mitre, BMP Audio, WNYC Radio and NRK. &#x201c;The level of commitment that our Grand Jury gives is an inspiration to us all. In addition to creating award-winning programmes, they volunteer to share their knowledge by reviewing entries submitted from dozens of companies around the world,&#x201d; said Rose Anderson, VP and executive director, New York Festivals International Television & Film Awards. &#x201c;We look for wide experience and demonstrated achievement in our jury members as a way of providing a balanced jury and quantifying fairness in the selection process.&#x201d; Grand Jury members view and score entries based on industry-accepted standards of excellence using a scale of one to 10 for the following set of criteria: production values, creativity, content presentation, direction, writing, achievement of purpose and audience suitability. Based on the medal-round scores from the Grand Jury, winners receive one of the following: Gold Trophy, Silver Trophy, Bronze Trophy or Finalist Certificate. The highest scoring entries receive the Grand Trophy honouring &#x201c;Best in Show&#x201d;. Special industry awards include Broadcaster of the Year and Production Company of the Year. The awards ceremony will be held on Monday 19 June 2017 in New York City and award-winning entries will be showcased on the NYF Radio Awards website. The deadline to enter the 2017 World&#x2019;s Best Radio Programmes competition is 17 March 2017. To view the entire jury selection, click here.