Erica Elk and Minister ZuluThe new platform has been made possible by funding from the South African Department of Small Business Development (DSBD). It is a non-transactional search and connect site that is free to use and will open up access to new markets for the many small craft and design businesses in South Africa. The site has been piloted since August 2016, with small businesses and currently has over 120 businesses listed and over 630 local products showcased. Erica Elk, executive director of the CCDI, says, &#x201c;Peek provides a platform for South Africa&#x2019;s creative businesses anywhere in the country to showcase their work to a local and global audience, highlighting the very best of what South Africa has to offer. While it is not a trading platform, the site allows for click-throughs to businesses&#x2019; own websites, ecommerce platforms selling their products and facilitates B2B and B2C contact. &#x201c;One of the key challenges for small South African businesses remains access to markets. With technology, however, we have the opportunity to bridge the divide and create new ways for beautiful local products to reach local and international buyers and consumers. We are very grateful to the DSBD for the funding to undertake this landmark initiative. Government supports extension of services to nine provinces &#x201c;The DSBD has also supported the CCDI to take its training programmes and knowledge to a national audience through a rollout campaign, which started in 2016. &#x201c;Through the DSBD we have been able to take our services beyond the Western Cape to the benefit of small creative businesses in all nine provinces. Platforms, such as Peek, will enable many business that have constrained local market opportunities in their towns and cities to access a much larger audience and consumer-base for free. &#x201c;Peek is not a curated site and so its unique value is the diversity of the range of products and aesthetics. There is something for everyone on this site. &#x201c;The site is an important addition to the physical market access opportunities provided by the CCDI, such as facilitating access for small businesses to local markets, key national trade shows and events, and international trade shows like Maison et Objet. &#x201c;If we look at the value of trade from just three of these market access opportunities concluded in 2016, we enabled small businesses to generate orders of over R1.8m. We anticipate that Peek will help our South African creative businesses find even more new customers locally and internationally.&#x201d; The CCDI invites creative businesses to sign up for the Peek site by registering as a business member on the national database at www.ccdi.org.za &#x2013; it is free and once registered, businesses can directly access Peek to upload products. For more information, go to www.peek.org.za.