My girlfriend and I went and did the ultimate thing two people can do when they are in love, we went and got married! We were mavericks about it too, planning everything in two weeks and we had no parents present at the ceremony. There are two reasons I am sharing this slice of my life with you; firstly, to obviously brag and because my sweet lady is my ever &#x2018;suffering&#x2019; companion when I attend gigs to review. We got married on the Friday and the first gig we attended as husband and beautiful wife was Mi Casa performing at Kirstenbosch as part of their Summer Sunset Concerts 2016/2017 on Sunday, 19 March. Annual staple The Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts are an annual staple in Cape Town and the reasons why they remain popular are quite obvious. Just think about it; summer, the most beautiful garden in Africa, the eastern slopes of Table Mountain, picnic baskets, blankets, friends, family, sundowners and good music. There are very few better ways to end off a weekend. The 2016/2017 series of concerts kicked off on 20 November with Jimmy Nevis and the curtains will fall with Shortstraw and Al Bairre on 2 April. The series&#x2019; lineup is made up of something for everyone, what with artists ranging from Prime Circle to The Soil. Even an international act like The Pixies rocked the Kirstenbosch stage. Getting married is an exhausting business, I tell you, and beautiful views, great friends and some good jams from Mi Casa are exactly the thing we needed to close the weekend. Mi Casa needs very little introduction. The group dominated airwaves with their 2011 debut single, "These Streets". They have released three albums since: Micasa Music (2011), Su Casa (2013) and 2015&#x2019;s HomeSweetHome. The group is made up of J&#x2019; Something who serves as lead vocalist, Mo-T as trumpeter and Dr. Duda is Mi Casa&#x2019;s music producer, keyboardists and DJ. Urban and township blend Mi Casa is very charismatic, stylish and sleek as a group and their sound is a blend of urban and township beats and rhythm. They played all their popular singles and even covered some popular local and international radio jams. The crowd especially responded well to their cover of Drake&#x2019;s "One Dance" and their own hit, "Don&#x2019;t Wanna Be Your Friend". Mo-T even came and played a trumpet solo for his late father, Banza Kgasoane who is the founder member and trumpeter for the legendary group, Mango Groove. That was quite a special moment for everyone. A Mi Casa concert isn&#x2019;t anything without the other singles that put them on the map. Songs like "Get Through This", "My Sugar", "Turn You On", "Barman" and "Chocolat" also had the crowd moving. All I can say is that any of the Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts are always worth attending and are a great place to take your family or to hang with friends. I also highly recommend catching a Mi Casa show whenever you can. micasamusic.com Photography by Ivan Hendricks - view full gallery here