 rvlsoft via 123RFMara is an African multi-channel platform of online and mobile tech innovations that are designed to connect people across emerging markets. Nimbuzz, initially released in May 2008 is a powerful cross-platform mobile calling and messaging app. The app can be installed on computers, mobile phones, smartphones, and tablets. Nimbuzz offers its users the ability to make voice and video calls, enable chat and file sharing worldwide. The app has over 200 million users and is available for Android, iPhone, and Symbian, MIDP, Windows Phone, BlackBerry and PC and MAC clients. Anubhav Nagar, CEO of Mara Social Media said &#x201c;We see a strong momentum for consumer messaging apps, which are set to overtake social media apps globally. According to reports and current trends it is clear that social media apps are likely be eclipsed by messaging apps in the next two years. This is the opportunity, which we identified with Nimbuzz.&#x201d; As part of this acquisition, Mara gains access to Nimbuzz&#x2019;s and Holaa&#x2019;s unified platform as well as their international assets, IP and database. The acquisition provides a strong foundation for our future growth in emerging markets. Nimbuzz Instant messenger and Holaa has a user base of 200 million registered users spread across India and the Middle East. Ahuti Chug, chair of Mara Social Media said &#x201c;Users are now demanding a messaging app experience that goes beyond entertainment or communications. We see this as a gap in the offering of the existing messenger players in most markets and it opens up a huge opportunity for Mara to tap in to. We are extremely excited about this move and with the fact that it makes us a global player in this space.&#x201d; Mara will roll-out a new hybrid approach for the Nimbuzz messenger which would be an amalgamation of content, Incubator platform, smart market place and consumer communities. Mara plans to integrate the Nimbuzz platform with its existing Mara platforms, including Mara Mentor and Mara Jobs, into Nimbuzz Messenger and vice versa. Mara Mentor is a free online mentoring platform that connects ambitious entrepreneurs and business leaders globally and can be accessed via a web-based platform and a mobile application that&#x2019;s available on iOS and Android. Mara Jobs is an online job platform in emerging markets including Africa and the Indian sub-continent. It is a platform specially designed to service the blue collar and white collar job markets in these regions which are currently hugely fragmented.