How is this series going to be different from the last? Alex: There is one obvious difference. I have worked on the show for 12 years and I have been part of Top Gear for a long time. When I first joined on series five, the team said series two was the one where everybody found their feet. And I think that is what we are seeing in this series &#x2013; the chemistry and ambition for the films is really coming through. We have been all over the world with big ideas and all three presenters are coming together. We have been to some amazing countries including America, Monaco and Cuba. The scale is bigger than the last series. How are Matt, Rory and Chris getting on? Clare: They know each other better now. If you think about it, last year they were only booked in February and they were on air in May and you can&#x2019;t force chemistry. We were making a lot of individual films before. Now they are working together. It is much more natural. If you put three guys on a trip with three cars, the banter starts, they laugh and they have fun. They are all competitive in their own ways. Are they your staple team? Clare: Yes, they are our core team. We will have guest appearances on Top Gear. Eddie and Sabine will be making films for us and we would like to open the garage doors to other guests too. What other new features are you introducing? Alex: We want the celebrity guest to be weaved throughout the show a lot more. Clare: And instead of being taught to drive the track by the Stig, they will be taught by Chris with cameras filming them. Stig will still be doing the Stig laps. Alex: The track will also go back to the track that used to be the Stig lap. Clare: We know the viewers love adventures on the road that can appeal to a broad base. We have got far more of those. We have had more time to do more of what we want to do. The set is also going to look quite different. We want to stay true to being in Dunsfold but we are a new show and we have new presenters. How would you describe the presenters&#x2019; banter? Alex: It is competitive! Clare: It seems to be if that if you get three blokes together in a car, they really laugh! Describe the unique premise of Top Gear. Alex: The programme starts from the car &#x2013; always. We build from that. We combine all different ingredients and we have got great ambitions. Describe what each of the three bring to Top Gear. Clare: Chris&#x2019; knowledge is extraordinary. He is a walking encyclopaedia. Matt can take the engine out and rebuild the car. He is the most mechanically adept. Rory speaks for the younger generation. He loves the image of the car and he knows all the tech. All three love driving but do bring slightly different things. Who will interview the guests? Clare: All three are going to be involved. We want it to be more of an ensemble rather than going &#x2018;you do that bit&#x2019;. We want to be more flexible. And finally, will they be driving more affordable cars as well as trying out the fast cars? Alex: We have got a big challenge in Kazakhstan with second hand cars. They have done half a million plus miles. The idea is they are incredibly reliable but they are ticking time bombs. There is a broad range across the whole series. Our job is to come up with really fun ideas.