&#x201c;The drought South Africa has been experiencing has far-reaching consequences, not only in terms of water shortages but also in terms of water pollution. Flash flooding because of drought can also wreak devastation on underprivileged communities. An often unacknowledged consequence of these disaster situations is that water sources get severely contaminated, which causes water-borne diseases, poor health and even death,&#x201d; explains Khululiwe Mabaso, CSI associate director for sub-Saharan Africa at P&G. Purifier of Water In 2014, UNICEF stated that access to clean water is a global crisis and estimated that 663 million people lack access to improved drinking water; 319 million of whom are in sub-Saharan Africa. Since 2004, CSDW has provided over 11 billion litres of clean water to needy communities around the world, with six billion litres of that in 40 African countries through its Purifier of Water packets. Invented by P&G scientists, each four-gram powdered Purifier of Water packet treats 10 litres of heavily contaminated water by effectively killing bacteria and viruses and removing parasites and solid materials. With only a bucket, a spoon, a cloth and a small P&G Purifier of Water packet, 10 litres of dirty water can be purified in just 30 minutes. Commenting on the long-term effects of clean water for needy communities, Mabaso says, &#x201c;Clean water does not only quench thirst, promote health and prevent unnecessary deaths. It means more people can work and enhances productivity. The World Health Organization has estimated that every $1 invested in clean water, sanitation and hygiene generates $4 in increased productivity, which enables sustainable and equitable economic growth. &#x201c;Looking towards the future, CSDW has pledged to deliver 15 billion litres of clean water globally by 2020. This will assist in achieving one of the United Nation&#x2019;s 2030 Sustainable Development Goals &#x2013; ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all." This is one of the projects P&G is working in partnership with key stakeholders, communities and NGOs to improve the lives of communities. It is working with Gift of the Givers in areas around South Africa, including Free State, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal and North West to provide relief on the current shortage of clean water. CSDW continues to provide clean water to our neighbouring countries as well to ensure that more communities have their lives enhanced by this basic human right,&#x201d; concludes Mabaso.