Clicks2Customers was awarded a silver pixel in the organic search marketing category for client Virgin Active's 'A total organic workout' at last week&#x2019;s Bookmarks, and sent through the &#x2018;champagne cork popping&#x2019; emoji when asked to digitally express their emotions post-Bookmarks wins. Scott explains: "The work presented at the Bookmark Awards is consistently of a world-class standard, showcasing the most innovative, inspiring and exciting campaigns SA&#x2019;s digital experts have to offer. The campaigns on display indicate a very positive outlook for the future of digital in SA for agencies, publishers and clients." Chelsea Owens, Clicks2Customers account director and Rosanne Kruger, Clicks2Customers SEO team lead on stage But there&#x2019;s more to it than that. In addition to having their own work awarded at the Bookmarks, Clicks2Customers&#x2019; innovation hub C2C Labs is a certified Blippar partner in SA and was thus responsible for the Blippar augmented reality installation that kept attendees entertained earlier in the day at the IAB Digital Summit. Walter says Blippar is a leading visual discovery app, harnessing augmented reality and artificial intelligence to bring the physical world to life through smartphones. Providing new and exciting ways to drive deeper engagement, inspire and deepen brand conversations, delegates downloaded the free Blippar app ahead of the event to engage with event partners, access Summit content and enjoy other fun-filled experiences on the day. Don&#x2019;t just take my word for it, see for yourself in the images from the IAB Digital Summit below: Interactive wristband. AR gallery. AR gallery. AR gallery. AR gallery. AR gallery. AR gallery. AR gallery. Blippar at the IAB Digital Summit 2017. Walters also answered a few questions on this aspect of the IAB Digital Summit and Bookmarks. For those who weren&#x2019;t there, how did Blippar AR augment what was happening live last week? C2C Labs produced an AR gallery, which provided a new way to engage with the event partners. By scanning the art gallery designs with the free Blippar app, delegates could access exclusive promotions. For example: DStv ran an AR exclusive promotion, where delegates could take an AR selfie with a DStv celebrity and stand a chance to win DStv Exploras. DStv's Blippar promotion. Gumtree placed a hidden IAB ad on their site, which delegates had to find and stand a chance to win Nespresso machines. Diamond partner Accenture Interactive ran a Pokemon Go-style AR scavenger hunt. Delegates had to hunt down 20 AR markers placed throughout the venue and claim them to be entered into a promotion. All of this brought a gamification element to the event. Explain the importance of AR in supplementing real-world interaction, particularly in the business realm. The benefit AR brings to events such as these is primarily delegate engagement, but can also be used for lead generation such as promotions, and ultimately offer a return on sponsor investment. What was response like from those that used the Blippar installations? Apart from the initial wow factor of the delegates&#x2019; real-world coming to life with digital overlays, we also showed positive engagement stats. Although we had brand ambassadors on site with iPads to showcase the AR to delegates, we found a positive amount of delegates downloaded the app to engage themselves. Overall, we saw just shy of 1,000 interactions and repeat usage behaviour, where on average there were up to six interactions per user on some of the executions. Total average dwell time amounted to 85 minutes of engagement time. That&#x2019;s digitally augmenting reality at its best. Click here for the full list of 2017 IAB Bookmarks Award winners and visit our special section for the latest updates!