papiboy via pixabayIn a new article in the international journal Food Control, they set out how near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy can be used to do so under South African conditions. Because portable and mobile NIR instruments are available on the market, it is therefore easy to perform such tests on site at for instance a honey farm or distribution plant. The work was conducted by lead author Dr Anita Guelpa, as part of her earlier postdoctoral research work in the Department of Food Science at Stellenbosch University and the University&#x2019;s Central Analytical Facility (CAF) CT-Scanner Facility. Dr Guelpa was assisted in developing and testing the method for South African conditions by her study leader, spectroscopy expert Prof Marena Manley of the SU Department of Food Science, SU research analysists Dr Anton du Plessis and Dr Ruhan Slabbert, and Dr Federico Marini of the University of Rome La Sapienza in Italy. A target for adulteration and food fraud According to the records of the South African Beekeeping Industry, 1,500 tons of honey are produced locally every year. It is, however, not enough to meet consumer demand, and therefore roughly the same volume is imported every year &#x2013; at a lower price than that of locally produced honey. Because honey is a high-value foodstuff, it has unfortunately become a target for adulteration and subsequent food fraud. Cheap sugar syrups are sometimes added to honey being sold locally. In other cases, high-quality honey has been found to be diluted with cheaper low-quality versions. Another form of misconduct occurs when honey is labeled as being produced locally, but in reality, it has been imported or diluted with imported honey. &#x201c;Not only is the consumer misled, but it means that the local producers cannot compete with the low pricing of these adulterated honeys,&#x201d; says Prof Manley. Detecting adulteration in South African honey &#x201c;There was, therefore, a need for a fast, non-destructive, easy to use and low-cost classification method to detect adulteration in South African honey,&#x201d; she explains the reasoning behind the study. Current methods to detect adulterated honey, such as the use of stable carbon isotopic ratio mass spectrometry (SCIRA) or thermal analysis, are expensive, time-consuming and in most cases destroy the sample used. The research team decided on near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy because the technique has been used before in international studies to determine the floral origin of honey or to authenticate its geographic or botanical origin. The technique allows for the authentication of more than one honey sample at a time. By looking at specific spectroscopic &#x201c;fingerprints&#x201d; or spikes, it was possible for Dr Guelpa to verify the geographic origin of a sample, and whether it is indeed produced by South African bees or not. It can also pick up whether any sugars (such as glucose or fructose) or non-South African honey have been added to the sample. This is possible even in cases where only a little bit of extra sugar has been added. &#x201c;Authentic South African samples, despite their coming from diverse regions and having been made from pollen from different types of flowers, share specific spectroscopic characteristics that help to differentiate them from imported and adulterated honeys,&#x201d; explains Prof Manley. She says the technique could potentially also be used to distinguish between different types of South African honey (for instance blue gum of fynbos). Other advantages are that NIR measurements can be done quickly, it is non-invasive and is easy to perform, especially when using a portable instrument. Because the samples tested are not destroyed in the process, these can be stored as evidence in further investigations.