From L-R: Owen America and Nelia Burger from the Novus Academy and Nico Grobbelaar (group executive of human resources, Novus Holdings)In addition to recognising best skills development practices in various categories across all skills development implementers and National Skills Fund projects, the awards also provide exposure for best skills development practices through print and electronic media, as well as work placement opportunities created through various learning programmes such as artisan development, learnerships and internships to name a few. &#x201c;We are excited and humbled to receive this recognition. For us this achievement is a result of team effort, including our apprentices, learners and employees, all of whom have contributed to our success,&#x201d; said Nico Grobbelaar, executive head of human resources at Novus Holdings, previously known as the Paarl Media Group. Noting the shortage of specialised skills in the marketplace, the group established the Novus Academy in 2011, which has grown into a recognised facility, dedicated to providing advanced training programmes, aligned to international curricula. It launched its apprenticeship programmes in 2011, which offer successful applicants an opportunity to earn an income, whilst working towards an internationally certified trade qualification. The apprenticeship programmes utilise an integrated approach that recognises the importance of mathematics, environmental studies and end-user computer training. Apprenticeships are offered in 12 specialised areas. Of 164 apprentices indentured since 2011, 69 have already completed their studies with an average score of 92%. Award entries were judged on 2014-2016 performance criteria, which included track record of placements and appointments, retention and throughput, number of learners employed and the profile of learners. With sophisticated infrastructure that includes software and technology, the Academy works closely with the Quality Council for Trades and Occupations, NAMB (The National Artisan Moderation Body), SAQA (South African Qualifications Authority) and Printing SA. The Fibre Processing & Manufacturing Sector Education and Training Authority (FP&M SETA) endorses it and it is approved as a training centre for the City and Guilds of London Institute. &#x201c;We understand that self-dependency and innovation in terms of skills development within our business and industry are critical. Winning this award is an indication that we are on the right path and we remain committed in investing in the development of skilled artisans by providing comprehensive training and trade learning opportunities,&#x201d; concluded Grobbelaar. For more information, go to https://novus.holdings/academy.