A unique, sophisticated, and intelligent hybrid marketing genius A hybrid marketing genius that is unique, sophisticated and intelligent, retail kiosks have become a booming trend that has revolutionised the typical traditional shopping experience. A shopfront display that has grown beyond fashion products to encompass food, makeup, books, and art &#x2013; enabling hundreds of small businesses to get off the ground &#x2013; these modern retail shopping kiosks are a stepping stone trading device. A one-stop shop that blends retail with event marketing, the role of retail kiosks is not new, with brands and retailers utilising them in increasingly innovative ways. A sufficiently flexible, modular option for in-line retail activities that boasts full-colour interchangeable lightweight prints, LCD screens, hanging solutions, shelves, and digital tablet enclosures. These famous marketing superstars can be found for all stand configurations and can even be added to or broken up into sections to suit your mall space or tenant needs. A mall kiosk that comes with countless benefits &#x2013; here are nine ways a retail kiosk can boost revenue and build buzz for your brand. #1 Markets merchandise around a season, sale, or holiday #2 Tests new products or concepts #3 Enhances customer buying experience through personal interaction #4 Encourages spontaneous purchase of merchandise #5 Increases customer base and brand extension #6 Generates brand exposure and boosts sales #7 Facilitates the collection of leads, feedback, and loyalty programmes #8 Cost effective with low overheads #9 Grow shoppers experience and mall visits A temporary to a permanent retail and shopping kiosk, create unique, memorable 3D experiences that align with the brand&#x2019;s values &#x2013; a retail kiosk is a short-term investment for what could be a long-term gain. The newest trend in guerrilla marketing to hit the streets nationwide, a modular retail kiosk has proven to be an effective prize-winning marketing tool that can be strategically placed just about anywhere. Exclusive modern showrooms that bridge the online and offline gap, not only do they have the power to draw attention in crowds, generate brand buzz, create opportunities for marketing, and ultimately, boost higher sales. These sleek, simple, portable, cost effective and interactive marketing superstars are also the perfect avenue to make flash appearances and take any business on the road. Fuelling the retail revolution &#x2013; with many retailers and malls jumping on board &#x2013; a retail kiosk is simply a marketing tool. If you&#x2019;re interested in finding out more about how a retail kiosk can boost your revenue and build your brand, download our Modular Retail Kiosk (MRK) brochure and contact us.