When we think Rustenburg we tend to think mining, but it would be a mistake to discount this sub-tropical resort hotel which has a fabulous park-like setting, a golf course, putt-putt, petting zoo, pony rides and a wonderful children&#x2019;s play area. We loved the vast curlicue pool and thatch-umbrella covered loungers and the most magnificent trees that are always atwitter with birdsong. Directly adjacent is the Kgaswane Nature Reserve, which we walked up as our morning exercise beyond the viewing deck from which you can see the Olifantsnek dam and green belt that were once home to roaming elephant herds. Protea Hotel Rustenburg Hunters Rest offers a nature drive up to the viewing deck in the reserve with spectacular views of the mountain range for just R50 and because of this the route to the look-out, about a 5km roundtrip, is fully paved making it easier to walk the sometimes steep incline without the sensation of pebbles slipping under foot. General manager Siyanda Dlamini told me about his excellent plans to ensure a constant stream of business into the hotel, which includes conferencing during the week and niche-marketing weekends to attract particular interest groups during quieter times. From me this property gets top marks for offering a full lunch and buffet dinner, but also for the option to pay-and-weigh at a competitive R22/100g which means, for those of us on a restricted diet, it is easier not to go crazy at the all-you-can-eat. Cuisine was a very good quality with friendly service to match. Dlamini also told me that the hotel downgraded to three stars to deliver a better value proposition to guests while the accommodation is being upgraded. As a veteran property, many of the 98 rooms comprised of 52 luxury twin rooms, 15 standard twins and 13 suites along with six standard family rooms, eight double deluxe rooms and three luxury suites have been refreshed. Other activities There&#x2019;s lots to do nearby: The Magaliesberg Canopy Tour is just 30 minutes away while the Waterfall Mall, which includes a Virgin Active Health Club, is less than 15 minutes towards town and a number of restaurants and the Brauhaus am Damm brewery are within proximity. I wish that we&#x2019;d come to this resort as a family while growing up. The playful (read naughty) Vervet Monkeys are amusing to watch and the aforementioned birds a real pleasure to behold. There is a vast Boma in which to dine and dance under the stars, a wedding chapel and even a wrought-iron Cupola in the garden where vows might be exchanged. Hunter&#x2019;s Rest Lodge is one of the few places we&#x2019;ve visited where the allure to kick back and to lie at the pool ordering cocktails and snacks is the overwhelming urge. For more info or to make a booking go to www.marriott.com