The three schools in Mpumalanga adopted by the IDC have improved their annual pass rates by an average of 20 percentage points. L-R: Geoffrey Qhena, CEO of IDC, Mshiyeni Belle, AAS board member, Sello Hatang, CEO of IDC, minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga at the official opening of the library at Mapaleni Primary in Mpumalanga. &#x201c;The progress made by the IDC, in collaboration with Adopt-a-School, in uplifting learners from disadvantaged areas needs to be applauded. Improving the environment in which learning and teaching take place remains one of our key priorities in the sector. We welcome all committed stakeholders to join our efforts to take forward the cause of education transformation in our country,&#x201d; said Basic Education minister Angie Motshekga, speaking at the event. &#x201c;Unemployment among the youth is an ongoing challenge in South Africa,&#x201d; said Geoffrey Qhena, CEO of the IDC. &#x201c;Nearly half of people aged 15 to 24 years old are currently unemployed. A lack of educational attainment is a major contributing factor to this challenge, and one of the ways of addressing this is through the kind of sustained intervention we have achieved in our partnership with Adopt-a-School," he adds. Science and computer laboratories Makhosana Manzini High in the rural village of Calcutta, situated on the edge of the Kruger National Park is one such school to benefit from this partnership. Over the last five years, science and computer laboratories have been renovated, ablution facilities revamped and a new administration facility built. In addition to improving the school&#x2019;s physical infrastructure, training and support programmes have been facilitated for both educators and learners. Skills like planning, leadership and governance, as well as career guidance and personal empowerment, are covered during these sessions. Both learners and educators have received supplementary support in the vital subjects of mathematics and physical science. &#x201c;We are thrilled with the progress made at Makhosana Manzini over the past five years,&#x201d; said Steven Lebere, executive director at Adopt-a-School. &#x201c;The matric pass rate at the school has improved from 53.8% in 2012 to 82.5% in 2016. It&#x2019;s a great example of our Whole School Development Model at work.&#x201d; Renovated ICT centre In 2015 the IDC adopted Mapaleni Primary School, the feeder school to Makhosana Manzini. To date, they have built a library and renovated an ICT centre and rolled out development and support programmes, including a programme supporting Grade four to seven learners with learning barriers. This partnership has built a platform for meaningful collaborative investment. In 2016, the Nelson Mandela Foundation provided library books for Mapaleni&#x2019;s new library as part of the Mandela Day Library Initiative. The new ICT centres at both schools were implemented in partnership with Wipro Technologies, who donated the much-needed software and hardware for the facilities. Support and training programmes Lehlasedi High School, a rural school near Bushbuckridge, has also benefited from the construction of a science laboratory, six new classrooms and the implementation of a range of support and training programmes for both learners and educators. As with Makhosana Manzini High, special emphasis was placed on mathematics and science. These subjects are vital to a whole range of careers that are in critically short supply in South Africa&#x2019;s economy. In 2016, four distinctions were obtained in these subjects. &#x201c;We look forward to continuing our successful partnership with the IDC and Mpumalanga&#x2019;s education department; making further progress in uplifting South Africa&#x2019;s next generation,&#x201d; said Lebere. &#x201c;We are extremely proud of what has been achieved so far and grateful to our partners for their invaluable contributions to this effort.&#x201d;