The Stokvel Exhibition is an all-encompassing two-day event that brings various sectors from the financial sector, burial, wholesalers, lifestyle, education to tourism products; to connect and partner with the stokvel community through the showcasing of products and driving of conversations for possible networking and investment opportunities. The 2017 expo offers stokvels, enterprises and informal businesses to share experiences and explore opportunities that will develop and drive social and economic growth. With that in mind the department will further ensure that informal businesses are registered and the stokvel community is fully vested in driving the local economies especially in the Villages, Townships and Small Dorpies (VTSD). The strategic intent is to capture the spirit of exchanging ideas and partnership between stokvels, service providers and informal businesses. Attendees will hear from government departments, successful stokvels and enterprises from various sectors. Workshop topics to be covered will include: Hidden economies, Investing in stock, stokvel incubation and cooperatives and building the perfect formal business to name a few. &#x201c;By hosting this kind of events the department want to instil the spirit of entrepreneurship to stokvel members especially those in the VTSD areas and encourage them to explore the opportunities of registering cooperative banks, said MEC for FEED, Ms Wendy Nelson. Nelson further said that the study conducted by African Response revealed that approximately 23.4% of South African adult population belong to stokvels. As government we felt it will proper to empower the members with governance tools to alleviate poverty and increase economic trade and market share. Admission to the expo is free of charge for all stokvels, clubs, associations&#x2019; cooperatives, small business and individuals interested in tapping into this market. The official opening will be as follows: Venue: Brazil Stadium Date: 10 March 2016 Time: 10am Members of the media are invited to this event.