On-demand transportation - or ride-sharing - as an alternative to taxis, rental cars, or actual driving is no longer just the choice of millennials. The value in the convenience of immediacy, location and payment is appealing to all demographics and is bringing ride-sharing services into the mainstream. The trend toward urban life creates an ideal environment for the adoption of these new modes of transportation. "With a focus on vehicles for future urban areas, the IntelliGrip Urban concept tyre's technical features aim to maximise uptime and energy efficiency. This is crucial for 'Mobility as a Service' providers to offer improved mobility to their customers," said Jean-Claude Kihn, president of Goodyear Europe, Middle East and Africa. The Goodyear IntelliGrip Urban, with its advanced sensor-in-tyre technology, is a smart tyre designed to support autonomous vehicle control systems and enhance passenger safety. The concept tyre senses road and weather conditions. By gathering this critical data and sending it directly to the vehicle's computer system, it enables the car to optimise speed, braking, handling and stability. Future-generation autonomous fleets will be operating in a complex environment, with other vehicles, drivers, pedestrians and data from all of the elements making up the Internet of Things. Tyres such as the Goodyear IntelliGrip Urban could play a critical role in this evolving ecosystem. Furthermore, fleet operators will benefit from the tyre's tall and narrow shape, which reduces rolling resistance to increase energy efficiency and range of electrical vehicle fleets in an urban environment. The IntelliGrip Urban's sensor technology would also allow operators to precisely identify and resolve tyre-related issues before they happen. Key features and benefits The IntelliGrip Urban would enable fleets to monitor their vehicles and tyres in real time, giving them a competitive advantage whilst helping to increase their profitability, supported by following key features: Sensor-in-tyre technology helps autonomous cars to better read road conditions, supporting and enhancing passenger safety and peace of mind. The entire fleet can benefit from the crucial Tyre-to-Vehicle information exchange via the cloud. Proactive maintenance allows fleet operators to precisely identify and resolve tyre-related and potential safety issues before they happen. A one-stop, user-friendly solution to maximise tyre performance and schedule proactive maintenance helps to reduce total cost of operations and improve the uptime, efficiency and sustainability of the fleet. Tall and narrow shape reduces the rolling resistance of the tyre in order to increase the energy efficiency and range of the electrical vehicle fleet in an urban environment. The concept tyre's shape also contributes to improved aquaplaning performance, which allowed Goodyear's designers to decrease the amount of grooves on the tyre, increasing mileage and reducing noise levels.</li></li>