Who are you and what do you stand for? I am an independent spiritual being that loves to travel. I am fortunate enough to own a business that allows me to have a life I love and that gives me the freedom to live a purpose-driven life. Being a talented marketer and PR practitioner, what drives you each day? I am naturally a driven and positive person. It is easy to wake up each day being driven if you love what you do. I firmly believe if you are not enjoying your job, you are in the wrong industry. What have been the most effective marketing initiatives or programmes you've used to promote your business? Social media and word of mouth. I have been blessed to have established great working relationships throughout my career and that&#x2019;s opened up a lot of doors and opportunities for me. What one thing have you learned as a business owner/CCO that has served you well over the years? Focus on what you are good at and employ personnel that can focus on the elements you are not good at. Never be too proud to ask for help. What successful tool would you pass on to young woman wanting a career in marketing/PR? You have to be strong, independent and driven. Running a business, especially in the PR and marketing industry is not as glamorous as most people think it is. You have to be both tough and soft in order to run a business, but have people relate to you and love working with you. Do you think being a founder and CCO adds pressure to let your hair down? I have never lived an entirely reckless life. I am too much of a control freak to be that kind of person and I have learned to be responsible for my own life from an early age. However, I do find that I become more free spirited and let go of the control element when I travel and surround myself with likeminded people and friends. What is your number one business goal? To ensure that we deliver a service that keeps our customers happy and allow our business to grow, but at the same time, 4Elements Media has to, at all times, reflect our values and what we stand for. How does the day of a founder and CCO begin? I wake up pretty early, around 5.30am. The first thing I always do is silently affirm all the things I am grateful for. Then I spend my time reading through social media and drinking coffee. I am normally in the office from 7.30am. By knowing what you want for your company, does that drive affect your personal life? Yes, and having a vision and goal for what you want to achieve gives me at the same time a sense of security. What does 4Elements Media stand for? In 2011 when I started 4EM, I listed a number of things I was passionate about in the industries I worked in and narrowed it down to only four, which ultimately led me to start 4EM. What is the culture of 4EM? We allow our teams to run with accounts as it would be their own business and to have creative freedom. Our approach is not stern, but more of a work-life balance. Since the partnership with Kristan Group, what&#x2019;s the next step for 4EM? When we partnered with Kristan Group, our focus changed from being a small PR firm to become one of SA&#x2019;s top boutique PR firms in South Africa. The fact that we are in partnership with one of the top media venture capital companies, allows us to offer our clients more than just a PR offering, but an overall brand awareness offering that can touch base on marketing, media and advertising. What are some patterns you&#x2019;ve noticed over the years about women at work, and things they could be doing better to advance their careers? Trust your gut and voice your opinion. To show emotions in work can be an advantage if you channel it right, an advantage we have over men. Being a confident individual is very important for a businesswoman, how do you gain confidence? I have confidence because I spend time in knowing myself and working at bettering myself all the time. People often wonder about the differences between how men and women lead. What are your thoughts on that? I do not think there is a huge difference other than an emotional part which can be to our benefit. Can you name a person who has had a tremendous impact on you as a leader? Maybe someone who has been a mentor to you. Why and how did this person impact your life? My business partner Kasper Kristoffersen. I have learned so much about business since he partnered with 4EM last July. He taught me to focus on what I am great at, which is the creative part, but at the same time I have learned to value the services I have to offer and no longer do work for free. How do you encourage creative thinking? Finding balance and clear my mind from clutter. What would you recommend potential marketing and PR students gain more insight into? Social media, ePR and influencer marketing, global trends and first-hand experience. What is the best way for readers to connect with 4Elements Media? Stay up to date with 4EM on social media and our blog.