Tamika Sewnarain, brand manager, Cointreau South AfricaThe CCC, a global philanthropic initiative created by premium triple sec brand Cointreau, is made up of influential game-changer women who are "independent, chic and inspiring". The concept aims to inspire women to dare to be creative, believe in their dreams and bring them to life. The winner will be announced by the judging panel at the CCC Grand Finale at The Stack in Cape Town on 4 April 2017 and receive a R100,000 bursary to support his or her creative project. With a team of designers, performers and photographers, the CCC Grant Scheme offers an exclusive communication platform encouraging women (and men) to &#x2018;DreamDareCreate&#x2019;. &#x201c;We are excited to give these individuals a unique platform to express their creativity and showcase their work. It is also inspiring that South Africa has been chosen to pioneer this movement outside of UK and Europe, to recognise the talent our country holds,&#x201d; says Cointreau South Africa&#x2019;s brand manager, Tamika Sewnarain. The finalists Audrey Chabalala - Equip Models: This gives aspiring models a platform to grow and learn about the modelling industry. It helps them build up their profiles and know more about what is required to be a successful model. Deborah Leask - Rural KZN Cr che: A homework centre and cr che will be built in a small, forgotten community on top of a hill in rural Southern Natal. Heidi Faught - Outliers: This is a mentorship programme for facilitators of afterschool tutoring programmes helping them create safe spaces for learning. It supports them by mobilising relevant resources and training tutors to provide free education. Janine Vorster - Handmade Silk and Paper Flower Bouquets: Vorster is a lifelong student of art and started a small business which she runs from her new home. She creates silk and paper flower bouquets and sells them to brides-to-be. Jesi Townsend - 9T4 (Nine T Four): It will be a proudly South African and proudly androgynous clothing brand that is manufactured locally. Michell Klopper - Ballerina Love: Michell Klopper is an aspiring artist who wants to turn her passion into her career by selling her artwork. Mpumelelo Sefalane - Dine with Khayelitsha: This is a platform that bridges the gap between townships and cities, through setting conversational dinners. The dinners are driven by different themes, ranging from social issues, social innovation and leadership, to entrepreneurship and sustainability. Nanziwe Mzuzu - A Tide of Conspiracy Theories: This is a book about her life as a reformed gangster&#x2019;s girlfriend. It encompasses her journey to self-discovery and how she met the one man who managed to sweep her off her feet. Nokwanda Thulile Mathenjwa - Yamilet: This is a premium luxury consignment retail brand that enables the well-endowed working woman to resell her once-loved, gently-worn clothing to another woman, who falls in love with unique, pre-loved items. Nyameka Booi - My Quote TV: This is a digital platform that gives South Africans an opportunity to talk about their own original personal quotes. It showcases them through film and photography, which allows the viewer to gain an understanding of the context behind the quote. Ruramai Musekiwa &#x2013; Sibahle: This is an interactive platform that utilises creative mediums to cultivate positive African narratives and tangible creative outputs through collaborative projects and creative networks across Africa. Using both digital and ground-level activations, Sibahle seeks to highlight positive African stories. Soraya Asmal - Reload SA: This will be a woman-owned transport-and-trucking company in a male-dominated industry. It will load, transport and offload cargo within a network. Tiny Mungwe - Inanda Urban Retreat: This will be a facility for contemplation, creative work, shopping and the development of artistic works for African arts practitioners. Vonani Ngobeni - Beyond Matric: This aims to help today&#x2019;s learners choose the right courses and institutions and shows them how to access funds for their tertiary studies. This is done through bursaries, student loans and learnerships that can shape their future. Zinzi May - ft. (featuring): This is a concept company that strives to be a connection between prospective clients and emerging creatives in South Africa. It is a platform where creatives can register and upload their professional portfolios and link their social media pages. To follow the journey and keep up to date with developments, visit the dedicated webpage.