#ToyotaLive is streamed live on social media every Thursday afternoon #ToyotaLive presenter Fred Merc (left) has fun on set with musician Nasty C So, that&#x2019;s what Toyota is doing with its ground-breaking online campaign to communicate with men and women in the 18 to 35 age group, using Toyota&#x2019;s funky new lifestyle models, the C-HR and the RAV4, as a high-octane backdrop. #ToyotaLive kicked off on 23 March across all major social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, with a live-streamed 15-minute music show. Live-streaming across the social media platforms simultaneously is a South African first. The campaign will run over ten consecutive weeks, in 10 to 15-minute episodes, featuring ten of the country&#x2019;s top musicians &#x2013; but with a twist. The well-known musos will team up with up-and-coming acts. The household name artists will perform one of their own hits and perform a collaboration with the break-out new artist. So, it&#x2019;s entertainment and opportunity rolled into one. Conceived by FCB Joburg, the shows will be hosted by the livewire Fred Merc, and will feature a veritable Who&#x2019;s Who of the local music industry, including Nasty C, Kwesta, Locnville, Fifi Cooper and Nakhane Toure. Newcomers, including Telleman, Mque, TLT and Chad da Don, are expected to seize this great opportunity. The campaign aims to celebrate South Africa&#x2019;s vibrant youth culture, which is perfectly personified by the C-HR and RAV4. The break-the-mould C-HR set South African cyberspace alight even before its official launch with its combination of revolutionary, extrovert styling and superb Toyota engineering. The car is aimed at individuals who want to stand out from the herd and make a loud, and proud, statement about themselves. The sleek, sophisticated RAV4 now has even more road presence and turns even more heads, thanks to a bold exterior re-design centred on full LED headlights and a new front end featuring a bold, bigger Toyota badge front-and-centre. &#x201c;The millennial market is all about lifestyle and about individuality and #Toyota Live aims to build a strong connection and affinity among this market &#x2013; but at the same time, it aims to build even bigger brand love with its valued existing, and devoted, customers,&#x201d; said FCB Africa&#x2019;s creative director, Tiaan van den Heever, explaining the campaign. The campaign kicked off on Thursday, 23 March, and will run every Thursday at 2.30pm until 25 May. Credits: Creative agency: FCB JHB Client: Toyota &#x2013; Aidan Castille and Cindy Booysen Executive Business Director: Reagen Kok Account Director: Taryn George Chief Executive Creative Officer: Brett Morris Creative Director: Tian Van den Heever and Janine Kleinschmidt Copywriters: Marina Andreoli and Sandiselwe Gamede Art directors: Andre Pereira, Bronwyn Webb, Bronwyn Lasarow and Reynard Nel Head of Social Media : Lauren Prior Digital Strategic planner: Warwick Brummer Digital Media Strategist: Langelihle Sithole Production: Milk and Sugar CEO and Producer: James Lennox