Following the presentation of the Urban eTruck with 25 tonnes gross vehicle weight and a range of up to 200km in 2016, the first vehicles will be delivered to customers in 2017. Image source: www.daimler.com "Following the world premiere in September 2016 at the International Commercial Vehicle Show the customer reaction was outstanding," says Stefan Buchner, global head of Mercedes-Benz Trucks. "We are talking to about 20 potential customers from the disposal, foodstuffs and logistics sector. With the small series we are now rapidly taking the next step towards a series product. By 2020 we want to be on the market with the series generation." Zero emissions, quiet as a whisper and with a payload of 12.8 tonnes, the Urban eTruck offers an impressive economical and environmentally friendly concept. The vehicle will initially go in a low two-figure number of units to customers in Germany and later in Europe too. It will be used in real transportation applications there. The aim is to use actual application scenarios and requirement profiles together with the customer to further optimise the vehicle concept and the system configurations of the electric truck. The tests will include use in shift operation, charging times plus battery and range management. "When it comes to future technological issues we have set in the sector, for instance with regard to electric and autonomous driving plus connectivity. This year will now be our year of implementation: step by step we are developing the vehicles and systems to achieve market maturity," says Buchner. To be able to depict the various application possibilities, 18 and 25 tonne models will be equipped with either a refrigerated body, a dry box body or as a platform vehicle. Together with a special charger which takes into account the increased demands on a truck, the vehicles will be handed over to the customers to use for a period of 12 months and will be supported by Mercedes-Benz Trucks' road testing department. During this time the use profiles and areas of application will be recorded and the knowledge gained and expectations compared. Image source: www.daimler.com The Urban eTruck is part of a comprehensive electric initiative from Daimler Trucks. The light-duty electric truck Fuso eCanter will be in use in a global small series in 2017. About 150 vehicles will be handed over to selected customers in Europe, Japan and the US. Better air quality, a lower noise level and entry restrictions are now important catchwords in the big metropolises of the world. It will be necessary to transport goods in urban environments for increasing numbers of people and with the lowest possible emissions and noise. Therefore in the future all-electric trucks will take care of supplying people in many conurbations with groceries or other goods needed on a daily basis. The rapid technical development is supporting this trend: Daimler Trucks says it is expecting the costs for the batteries of an all-electric truck to fall dramatically by 2025 while the energy density of the batteries will increase. Source: Business Day