Take a cycle tour Hire bikes from the Turbine Water Club for up to eight hours and head to the scenic and dramatic Kysna Heads. Exploring Knysna by bike is a really wonderful way to get a feel for this small town. The area is pretty flat in most parts so the ride is not too strenuous. These are not guided tours, clients may cycle anywhere in Knysna. Helmets and locks are provided. From 9am-5pm. Cycle touring #Knysna A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on Mar 25, 2017 at 2:55am PDT Hike Knysna Forest Fantastically lush and fresh, Knysna Forest offers many predominantly shade-covered routes of different lengths to hike through. Admire lush ferns and giant Yellowoods or take a dip in one of the waterfall pools along the way. There is a 3km route, however, if feeling more energetic, the Circles in the Forest 9km hike is pretty spectacular. Guided tours are available. #Activewear weekend &#xfffd;&#xfffd; A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on Mar 26, 2017 at 2:48am PDT Kayak along the Thesen Channels Once legs and bums are sufficiently worked, why not give the guns a workout with a kayak tour of the Thesen Channels in the Knysna Lagoon. Kayaks can be hired for up to two hours and allow you to admire the pretty holiday homes in the affluent Thesen Island. These are not guided tours, clients may explore anywhere on the Knysna Lagoon in the course of the two-hour period. Rates are p/p. Single and double kayaks are available. Life jackets and paddles are provided. From 9am-5pm. Indulge in a buffet lunch at Totties Farm Kitchen All this activity works up an appetite and what better way to sate it than at the quaint Totties Farm Kitchen just 5km from the Knysna Forest. On Sundays the farm kitchen offers a substantial buffet and live music in their pretty garden and country style restaurant. The salad bar is truly outstanding and offers a huge array of delicious veggie options - think roasted veg, black rice salad, roasted brinjal, avo and pea barly, cous cous salads and more! The buffet lunch is R140 per person. Enjoy a sunset river cruise What better way to celebrate a successful day of explorations than to watch the sun go down aboard a motorised pontoon barge with a glass of bubbles in hand. The cruise lasts an hour and thirty minutes and takes you along the channels of Thesen Island to Featherbed, then on to the Heads and Brenton-on-Lake before heading back to the Waterclub. Snacks and drinks can be organised from the Turbine Hotel. Customised cruises can be arranged. For more info on these offerings click here How to get there Airlink &#x2013; the Regional Feeder Airline, offers a wide network of regional and domestic flights within southern Africa and operates as a franchisee to SAA Route Specific Information: Direct scheduled flights between Cape Town and Durban to George. Connectivity: Through our alliance with SAA travellers can connect conveniently with SAA, their Partner airlines and other carriers throughout Southern Africa and the world. Frequent Flyer Programme: Airlink is a member of South African Airways (SAA) Loyalty programme -Voyager. Flight Bookings:online, booking agent or SAA Central Reservations +27 11 978 1111 www.flyairlink.com