Starting with two workshop packed days, this year will also see two Oscar Awards styled red carpet evenings. Friday evening hosts the first eight category awards, followed by the second eight on Saturday night, and culminating with a glittering after party. &#x201c;We are delighted with our sponsorship of the annual Mercedes-Benz Bokeh South Africa International Fashion Film Festival, as we are currently involved across more than 50 international fashion platforms globally. The parallels between exclusive cars and luxury fashion collections were identified within the group at an early stage, with both worlds showcasing passion, creativity, style, ground-breaking design, the finest materials and first-class technical innovations as critical factors for success.&#x201d; says Selvin Govender, marketing director of Mercedes-Benz Cars. Festival lineup For budding film and fashion enthusiasts, directors and creatives the festival lineup provides an informative and inspiring two days of seminars, screenings, panel discussions and workshops by local and international industry experts in the fashion and film genres. Brand manager of Oude Meester; Sihlo Dangazele comments, &#x201c;We are once again excited to be involved in this amazing event which highlights the international phenomenon of merging fashion and film, so much so that this year we are sponsoring the Best Picture Award by offering a grand prize of a R100,000 4k camera system...&#x201d; Highlights on day one include the Emerging Creative Talent Showcase, Fashion Revolution; a discussion on ethical and sustainable clothing, a make-up master class with internationally acclaimed make-up star, Einat Dan and Ethereal Lust; the first SA International Hair Championships. While on day two attendees can look forward to an Adobe master class by Carla Ralph of Digital Media Solutions, Fujifilm-South Africa&#x2019;s showcase, and Gothic Couture; the South African International Creative Make Up and Body Art Championship. The festival&#x2019;s aim of acknowledging and rewarding upcoming fashion and film talent is set to have more impact than ever, with over 512 film submissions this year of which 120 will be screened over the two days. The 120 films chosen as the Official Selection will all stand the chance to win some amazing prizes. Awards Amongst the regular Excellence Awards which are presented with the prestigious Carrol Boyes trophies, these prizes include the Best Picture Award, sponsored by Oude Meester which carries a prize of a R100 000 Fujifilm camera system and the Billy Preston Emerging Creative Talent Award of R50 000 which honours young local teams of creatives. The Ethereal Lust SA International Hair Champs & Gothic Couture Body Art and Creative Make up Champs awards together carry a prize to the value of R50 000 and the Cape Town Fashion Council (CTFC) Mobile Challenge will offer a hamper of prizes as well. In addition to headline sponsor, Mercedes-Benz, the festival is proud to be aligned with prestigious brands and companies such as Cape Town Fashion Council, Organic Canvas, Havaiannas, M.A.C., label.m, Amplify Studios, Lime Lens, Thunderfund, Wings Group, Art Lab and Kim Gush. Label-M and M.A.C will be offering free hair and make-up applications, Fox Box will be providing express manicures for the ladies, and Redrum Culture Club will offer grooming for the gents during the festival. While Caff luxe and La Vie will make sure attendees stay caffeinated and hydrated whilst live music will be supplied by Riccardo Moretti of Tribal Need. For more info or to book tickets go to bokehfestival.co.za.