There will not be any charge for this service. Passengers on US-bound flights starting their journeys in Dubai are encouraged to pack their electronic devices into their check-in luggage in the first instance, to avoid delays. Customers should be aware that there will be a detailed search of all hand baggage on non-stop flights to the US from Dubai. They should, therefore, declare their devices before the search, or ensure their electronic devices are packed into their check-in luggage in the first instance. Compliance with minimal disruption Sir Tim Clark, president Emirates Airline said: &#x201c;Our aim is to ensure compliance with the new rules while minimising disruption to passenger flow and impact on customer experience. Our new complimentary service enables passengers, particularly those flying for business, to have the flexibility to use their devices until the last possible moment. &#x201c;Once on board they can still stay connected on their mobile phones. Our historical data shows that on Emirates&#x2019; US flights, 90% of passengers using our onboard mobile and Wi-Fi connectivity services do so via their smartphones. Only 6% connect via their laptops, and 4% via their tablets. That is not to say that other passengers are not using their devices offline, but perhaps the silver lining to this is that they can now justifiably give themselves a break from their devices, enjoy our onboard service and catch up on the latest movies, music, and TV box sets that we have on offer.&#x201d; Ban on electronic devices Emirates is working to ensure that its operations comply with the latest restrictions on electronic devices in the cabin. Emirates will deploy extra staff at the airport to ease and assist passengers, especially in the first days of the new rules being implemented. From Saturday, 25 March, travellers on non-stop flights to the US from Dubai International airport (DXB) will not be allowed to carry any electronic device larger than a cellphone or smartphone, excluding medical devices, into the aircraft cabin. Travellers must pack these electronic devices in their checked-in baggage. This new security directive, issued by the US Transportation Security Administration (TSA), applies to all passengers travelling on non-stop flights to the US from Dubai, including those in transit. It does not apply to passengers travelling on Emirates&#x2019; US-bound flights via Milan and Athens, or Emirates flights to/from any other destination. Emirates customers flying to the US can find out more about how the new TSA rules impact them at the Emirates Help Centre.