Headquartered in South Africa, The Talent Boom was founded by global talent matchmaker Emily Keyes, originally from the UK. The Talent Boom headhunts and represents game-changing, best-in-class senior to executive level talent across the creative, digital, sports, marketing and tech industries. They partner with advertising agencies, global development houses, start-ups and corporates across the globe. As a boutique global agency, The Talent Boom has a presence in over 20 countries. Services include headhunting, recruiting, talent mapping and consulting with organisations with regards to strategic innovation within recruitment, talent acquisition and the hiring process. Their global reach allows them to successfully match local talent across their core markets in UK, Europe, Asia, Africa and US as virtual neighbors to their clients as well as scouting expat talent looking to relocate. New Boomer, Laura Forsyth commented, &#x201c;I love Amsterdam and have been so excited to explore such an amazing city. I'm really looking forward to growing my network here, learning and collaborating with exciting companies and networking with talent across NL and Europe! The Talent Boom is a great company to work for and this is such an awesome opportunity. I can't wait to get started and represent such a well respected and cool organisation in the European market!&#x201d; Emily Keyes, founder of The Talent Boom, commented: &#x201c;We are excited to open our second office at The Talent Boom and for me, setting up in Amsterdam was an obvious move. The Talent Boom is very much based on global creative foundations and having worked in Amsterdam previously, I'm excited to be back in the forefront of such a solid creative international playground. Our talent network is constantly and rapidly expanding across Europe, with talent already based there as well as top executive creative talent in other continents who want to be working at some of the big players in Europe. We welcome Laura to The Talent Boom family and excited to share her successes as we grow our Euro clients teams with new talent.&#x201d; "In order for us to further service the global markets, it's fundamental that we look to be closer to our clients in Asia, Europe and US. This will enable us to hire recruiters on the ground to continue to zone in on the right talent and make more successful candidate matches while keeping a tight reign on the process from every angle.&#x201d; If you're interested in having a conversation with The Boom team about a new career, or if you are hiring and need fresh talent, please contact moc.moobtnelateht&#64;olleh or check out the website at www.thetalentboom.com or tweet @thetalentboom