Dentsu Aegis Network Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) is part of the global media group that specialises in media, digital and creative communications and spans over southern Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, and Tanzania and with both owned businesses, affiliates and affiliate partnerships in another 32 markets across SSA. People Input is the fastest growing digital agency in francophone Africa and operates from three offices within the west and central African region, being Senegal, Cote d&#x2019;Ivoire and Cameroon. People Input&#x2019;s wide range of digital services has received multiple industry accolades in the region, including the 2016 Best Digital Agency in Senegal, 2016 Outstanding Enterprise Solution in West Africa, 2013 Best ICT company in Senegal and 2012 IT WAEMU Award, proving their capability and strength in their service offering. People Input&#x2019;s backbone is its people, having 60 young African and digital enthusiasts part of their team. The business asset lies in their digital expertise which includes: digital strategy, creative design both online and print, social media marketing and web and mobile app development. This partnership supports Dentsu Aegis Network strategy of being a 100% digital economy business by 2020, and positions them as the leading communications network in west and central Africa. Speaking on the affiliation, the CEO for Dentsu Aegis Network Sub Saharan Africa, Dawn Rowlands, stated, &#x201c;We are very excited and proud to be affiliated to People Input. This affiliation gives us the opportunity to further realize our vision of being the top league of brand builders in Africa and innovate the way brands are built in Africa.&#x201d; Rowlands added, &#x201c;We have been impressed by the outstanding work People Input continues to deliver for their clients. Digital transformation means that we can change the way that people experience brands like never before. The next five years are going to be a constant state of change, data is becoming a new currency and companies need to be agile or they will be left behind. The digital economy will be the biggest driver of brands growth.&#x201d; General Manager for People Input Serigne Barro commented: &#x201c;At People Input, we have always had a healthy obsession with matching international quality standards to give our customers the best digital services. But we lacked a partner of international repute to nurture our business expertise and service delivery in that regard. We now have such an ideal win-win partner in Dentsu Aegis Network.&#x201d; Barro added: &#x201c;The communication business has changed considerably. The challenge today is to devise a coherent multi-layered and multi-channel strategy that makes a real impact on our clients&#x2019; activities and is still rooted in the African cultures that our teams come from. This partnership enables us to offer what the market expects: a local agency of international standard with proven expertise in a 360 approach to communication and a firm grasp of the cultural and sociological realities in each of our countries. With Dentsu Aegis Network we share the same vision and the same dynamic: we believe in Africa&#x2019;s digital emergence and wish to develop it by supporting our customers&#x2019; digital transformation.&#x201d; This affiliation marks a step change for Dentsu Aegis Network SSA, providing immediate scale, talent and new capability in the digital arena in west and central Africa.