Owned and developed by the consortium of Menlyn Maine Investment Holdings and Flanagan & Gerard Property Development & Investment, it is the major expansion of an existing 10,000 sqm shopping centre to 80,000 sqm of world-class shopping. &#x201c;The mall offers the ideal shopping and entertainment for its area. As a development, it reflects the latest in mall design and retail innovation. It delivers an easily accessible, one-stop shopping experience to the residents of KwaDukuza for the first time,&#x201d; says Patrick Flanagan of Flanagan and Gerard. Localising retail spend The mall&#x2019;s development is a major private investment that stands to benefit its community. It brings with it increased economic prosperity by creating jobs and keeping retail spend local. The mall worked closely with the KwaDukuza Municipality to ensure that local job seekers could benefit from the jobs created during its construction as well as the sustainable jobs that it has created for its ongoing operation. It has six anchor retailers, Checkers, Woolworths, Edgars, Pick n Pay, Game and Dis-Chem, plus a diverse mix of over 200 shop, restaurants and services, including local banks. Carl Jankowitz of Menlyn Main Investment Holdings explains that demand was so strong that the development was extended by 15,000 sqm during its construction phase to create more space to meet retailers&#x2019; demand. From its six-metre-high feature window, Ballito Junction&#x2019;s Urban Eatery looks out to the north over the undeveloped green parklands of Simbithi Eco-Estate and beyond that, on a clear day, to the Indian Ocean. It offers first-hour-free secure undercover parking, interlinked parking levels, parking bays close to its mall entrances, a drop-off and pick-up zone and special links for public transport and pedestrians. &#x201c;Ballito Junction Regional Mall is a shopping experience of distinction for the community of KwaDukuza and the entire ILembe District. It is an asset that everyone can be proud of,&#x201d; concludes Flanagan.