Westman says, "We are not here just to pay the bills!" #LeadInspireEmpower 1. Where do you live, work and play? Westman: I live in Gordons Bay, Cape Town. I work and play all around the globe, the ultimate playground. I love different cultures, people and flavours! 2. What&#x2019;s your claim to fame? I am a high-energy, focused lifelong achiever who has never been afraid to make things happen. Being a woman who has passion, drive, persistence and determination, focused on leading, inspiring and empowering everyone. 3. Describe your career so far. It has been results-driven. I am internationally recognised as a brand and business strategist. Working with major national brands, I identify gaps in the market, as well as opportunities and innovative solutions to drive profits and customer satisfaction for my clients. 4. Tell us a few of your favourite things. Loving, laughing,l iving in the moment, being with family and friends, Champagne, jetskii, sun, snow and New York. 5. What do you love about your industry? I love working with businesses and people, together building for their future and potential, which means making bold moves and implementing tough decisions that will transform their business or destiny and together creating a business ecosystem, providing solutions to our communities around us. 6. Describe your average workday, if such a thing exists. My day varies from day to day, client to client, sunrise to sunset. Most mornings: wake up early and plan my day, read/study business material, get kids ready for school, go to the gym/clients/office/jetskii if the weather is good. Afternoons: work, play and work again&#x2014;not because I have to but because I want to. 7. What are the tools of your trade? MacBook Air, Samsung Note and an absolute passion for people and achieving results. 8. What are you working on right now? An entrepreneurship funding programme and an entrepreneurship TV series. 9. Tell us some of the buzzwords floating around in your industry at the moment, and some of the catchphrases you utter yourself. Know your personal and business why before you focus on the how and the what.Be authentic.Be distinctive. Give your clients real value to build lifelong relationships to ensure referrals and repeat business. Be a disrupter and an innovator. 10. Where and when do you have your best ideas? When I am speaking with top business leaders. 11. What&#x2019;s your secret talent/party trick? I can make Champagne disappear! 12. What would we find if we scrolled through your phone? A gazillion photos and screenshots of business ideas that I like. 13. What advice would you give to newbies hoping to crack into the industry? Know your why, be authentic and do whatever it takes! Simple as that. Be sure to follow Westman on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram for more. *Interviewed by Leigh Andrews.