The decision was taken to revamp the outdated facilities at 900-bed capacity hospital, reputed to have the highest number of inpatients in sub-Saharan Africa, to match the levels of service delivery expected from the new SDC. The Dangote Foundation, which is financing the building operations, handed over a renovated maternity ward, two ultra-modern maternity laboratories, an upgraded water supply system, an eclampsia ward, theatre and improved sanitary environment befitting of a specialist hospital. President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, explained that providing the healthcare facilities was in line with the focus of the foundation to contribute to improved health care service delivery in Nigeria as well as nutrition on the African continent. He stated that his foundation has a mandate to intervene in the critical areas such as health, education and human development, which was why it has also embarked on some poverty alleviation programmes targeted at women at the grassroots. Aliko Dangote Source: Hero Entertainment The state commissioner for health, Kabiru Getso said the hospital was established about 92 years ago; with the maternity ward alone recording no fewer than 2, 000 deliveries monthly. Head of the hospital&#x2019;s medical laboratory, Magaji Minjibir said the intervention by the Dangote Foundation was timely, because the state of the hospital has been appalling. &#x201c;At chemical pathology, we had to wait for our equipment to cool down before we process results. The histology department had to stop work temporarily. Our autoclave is about 15 years old and outdated. We have only one microscope. Lab staff take turns to perform tests and these delays results especially for patients in emergency cases,&#x201d; Minjibir stated. &#x201c;There is no doubt that our staff will now be motivated by the conducive environment made possible by the foundation. They can now perform their duties free of so many hazards. The wards now have bright light, functional tools, water and toilets. All these would enhance condition of patients and help healing process,&#x201d; said Hauwa Mansur Waziri, the maternity ward matron.