As time passed and technology evolved, drones started becoming commonplace. In the early years of its existence, however, drones were being viewed from afar by many as just cute toys/machines being used by the ultra-rich or for classified, top military operations. These days, the storyline is a different one. Drones have become incredibly easier and cheaper to own and even those with high specifications and fantastic capabilities have now become more affordable. With this availability and the huge advancements made in the drone-making industry in the past five years, there's been an increased use of drones. Little wonder it's gradually becoming an important part of the business world. In a report released by a research group specialising in aerospace and defense, it has been predicted that more than $89 billion will be spent on drones (aka UAVs or unmanned aerial vehicles) in the next decade. And even though only around 10 percent of that figure will go toward commercial and civilian use, it's a huge sign this industry is about to explode. With names like Facebook, Amazon, BBC and more increasing their use of drones, it's obvious where the world is headed as regards the commercial use of drones. But, what about your business? Have you considered using drones in your business? Have you discovered the endless possibilities that your business can benefit from the use of drones? Let me fill you in by giving you these three profitable ways to use drones in your business. 1. Logistics Speed is the name of the game when it comes to business. You need to be able to get the goods to your customers in good time. And a drone can help you with that. Not sure if this is possible or not? In June 2016, DHL completed its three-month-long test of its automated drone delivery system, Parcelcopter. According to DHL, the Parcelcopter completed 130 autonomous loading and unloading procedures during numerous differing weather conditions and temperature fluctuations. You see how useful drones can be? Although the success of this will rely heavily on the size of the drone and the weight of the goods to be delivered, we bet it's good to know that drones can be used to sort out logistic issues in your business. 2. Adverts Imagine the next advertorial your business will be running? Can you see it? That huge one you've strategically placed along that busy highway? But now, imagine that advert being suspended in the air by drones? It sounds uncommon (and maybe a bit on the extravagant side). But look on the bright and profitable side of this: The drones will most definitely catch the attention of many who will marvel at your business' new concept of advertising. This will most likely lead to more customers, and then to more profits. It's a huge idea but if you can pull it off, the benefits are massive. 3. Enhanced security You may be wondering what the correlation is between making profit by using drones and security? How about you hear us out first? In business, money can be in different forms, one of which is assets. To remain in business, you have to ensure that your assets are in good working condition and are well secured. This is where the drone steps in. Whether your business involves having a vast land filled with several machineries or it's a start-up with just one large shopping mall, making use of a drone to ensure security is the way to go. The use of drones will give you real-time images which will reduce the risk of being burgled or robbed. This is obviously is more efficient and economical than employing several security guards/officials. These are just three of the many profitable ways you can use drones in your business. Of course with drones, the possibilities are endless. Try to use a drone for your business today. Be different and experience the difference in your business.