After the successful &#x201c;Moments in Between with McCaf &#x201d; campaign, McCaf is excited to announce that the ever fabulous, flamboyant, larger than life Somizi Mhlongo, better known to his fans as SomG, SomGaGa, is the face of McCaf Couch Sessions for SAFTAs11. McCaf is headline sponsor for the South African Film and Television Awards and together with Somizi, the brand is launching a series of webisodes called McCaf Couch Sessions with Somizi. On the webisodes, he talks to the nominees in The Best Actor and Best Actress in a Feature Film about their careers and achievements, and of course, what a SAFTA nomination means to them. Somizi will be live on the Red Carpet at the SAFTAs11 in Sun City, and hosting McCaf Couch Sessions in the McCaf Winner&#x2019;s Lounge backstage. Catch the McCaf Couch Sessions with Somizi from Monday, 13 March, and follow the conversation on social media #McCaf CouchSessions #McCaf About the McCaf sponsorship Our McCaf sponsorship was initially instituted in 2016 and now this year, we have migrated the sponsorship from the Best Youth Production category, to the Best Actor and Best Actress in a Feature Film. We are also showing our support in advancing and developing the exceptional talent that exists on our South African shores. This sponsorship emphasizes our commitment to being a good neighbor in the communities in which we operate and serve. Big brands like ours give the industry an opportunity to hone their skills by practicing the art of commercial story telling. This sponsorship also gives us an opportunity to interact with the industry and the people on the platforms that we use for our brand. Brands like ours stimulate and carry the conversation around the transformation of the industry. The nominees in the Best Actress and Actor in a Feature Film include Shoki Mokgope, for her role in film Sink, Christia Visser who is nominated for her lead role as Tess in the film Tess, Garion Dowds who is Leon Labouschagne in Shepherds and Butchers, Deon Lotz who is Bernard in Die Koue Kos and Dan Jaques Mouton who is Abraham &#x201c;AB&#x201d; in popular Noem my Skollie. The SAFTAs11 event will be on SABC2 on 18 March in Sun City.