From the page to the stage, the Top 500 Awards will see key decision-makers and luminaries from South Africa's most powerful companies gather at elegant Melrose Arch in Johannesburg, on 7 March 2017, to determine who will be crowned as the kings of corporate South Africa. Jaguar Land Rover is a brand that's synonymous with distinction and excellence, and its East Rand dealership is proud to be associated with an event that recognises and honours the cream of South Africa's financial crop. The Top 500 Awards engages executives and public sector leaders at the highest level - many of whom are also Jaguar Land Rover owners and clients. &#x201c;An event like this really epitomises Land Rover's ethos of going &#x2018;above and beyond',&#x201d; says Joe Senekal, Brand Manager at Jaguar Land Rover East Rand. He adds that the dealership is excited about aligning itself with a prestigious event like the Top 500 Awards. &#x201c;It's the right kind of client profile for us. We're committed to associating our brand with events where our clients are honoured and recognised. Not only is this a great exposure opportunity for Jaguar Land Rover East Rand, but we look forward to actively interacting and engaging with existing and potentially new clients.&#x201d; Jaguar Land Rover East Rand will have its most prestigious high-end vehicles on display at the awards ceremony. Look out for the pulse-quickening Jaguar F-Pace and F-Type Coupe models, including Land Rover's exhilarating and luxurious new Range Rover Sport. VIPs will be registered for a test drive in the most premium vehicle experience of their choice. More on Top 500 Every year, Top 500 &#x2013; South Africa's Best Managed Companies profiles the top five companies in 100 business sectors. Together making up the economy's lauded &#x2018;Top 500', these heavyweight companies have an annual combined turnover of over R3.5 trillion and comprise the vanguard of corporate South Africa. Now, for the first time, qualifying leading companies in Top 500's 100 business sectors will step out of its pages and compete for grand honours at the inaugural Top 500 Awards to see who will be awarded with the coveted prize of South Africa's Best Managed Company. Visit www.top500.co.za to align with the Top 500 Awards as a sponsor - limited packages still available.