To be published bi-monthly, Ideas/Idees is South Africa&#x2019;s only bilingual magazine for modern crafters, DIY decorators, enthusiastic makers and creative entrepreneurs. After being closed down by Media24 at the end of 2016, the editorial team managed to retain the trademark and has now embarked on a journey to keep this creative favourite alive &#x2013; both in print and digitally. The new issue, consisting of all the familiar faces and features that Ideas/Idees readers have come to know and love, has more pages than before and has gone all out to reward readers for their outpouring of support on social media and their financial contributions on crowdfunding platform Thundafund to keep the magazine alive. "If I ever wondered whether it was a wise decision to continue publishing Ideas/Idees, the reaction and active participation from readers assured me I was doing the right thing," says Le Roux, who will continue as editor of the publication with support from former editorial staff. "Closing the magazine would have left a massive gap, not only in the magazine market, but also in the lives of our creative maker-readers. It was the same for the team; everyone was immediately on board to tackle this new venture, even if it meant foregoing a salary for the first few months." According to Le Roux, the new Ideas/Idees magazine has been planned and designed to be a part of readers&#x2019; &#x2018;happy place&#x2019;, an escape from day-to-day stresses, their DIY therapy and their mindful companion. Filled with pages they can frame, fold, colour in or use as they please in other creative projects, the magazine is also a go-to guide for practical advice and ideas, and easy-to-do makes and projects. "Whether we take them on a journey to becoming their own fabric printer or one of self-reflection through collaging, our mission, as always, is to help readers make their world more beautiful. And that does not always have to be complicated. You simply need the right ideas," says Le Roux. To make the business model more sustainable, the strategy for the new edition is based on the way the team published special editions in the past: a lower print order and a higher cover price. And for those not able to afford the R80 cover price, the magazine will be available in both languages on Zinio and MySubs at a reduced price of R50. The first issue of Ideas/Idees is on sale from Monday, 6 March at leading retailers. Readers can also subscribe to the magazine via az.oc.yrotcafsaedi&#64;sbus . For more inspiration, follow @ideasmagazine on Instagram, @ideas_magazine on Twitter and @IdeasMag on Facebook, contact az.oc.yrotcafsaedi&#64;anereT to contribute, and for more info, read Terena le Roux keeps the Ideas/Idees flowing.