The partnership allows IOL to roll-out all future and existing ad products from The Newsroom - like the NWS Amplify offering announced earlier this year. Amplify uses Newsroom's extensive native reach - in-feed, end of article or content recommendations - to help brands onboard potential auto buyers, across a more relevant and less interruptive consumer journey. "Independent Media will be our first local partner to benefit from our brand studio offering, which connects the vision of our in-house creative solutions teams with the invaluable local sales insights and expertise of IOL," declared Carl Jordan - Country Director at The Newsroom. According to a BI Intelligence report, native ads will drive 74% of all ad revenue for publishers by 2021, as world's largest marketers are shifting large parts of their budgets into the space. Native is evolving dramatically, in part because of the increasing adoption of ad blockers, but mainly because native ads prove to drive higher brand lift and engagement when compared to traditional banner ads. "Native advertising has grown into the most significant opportunity for investment at IOL and a great chance to win back consumers that have became unresponsive to traditional display formats. Native fits organically with the values we live by at IOL: authenticity, relevance, and respect for our users," declared Chris Naidoo - Commercial Director at IOL. With the new partnership, The Newsroom consolidates its position as the leading South African marketplace that helps advertisers and agencies purchase premium native inventory and audiences, directly from publishers. "We're very excited to be able to support IOL's business goals moving forward, while expanding our local footprint with many of the most trusted publishing brands in South Africa," declared Mihai Fanache, founder and CEO at The Newsroom. Independent Media is one of the largest publishing groups in South Africa, with a strong commitment towards innovation and effectiveness in an ever-changing publishing landscape. The Newsroom is a global technology company, with offices in New York, Bucharest and Singapore. The company has rapidly developed as one the most dependable and experienced players in the native ad space, making significant contributions to industry guidelines, standards and best practices overseen by the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB). For more information - please contact: oi.moorsweneht&#64;nadroj.lrac