The company will now operate under the CopperTable brand, one that has cemented its reputation and expertise in the niche within which it operates. Alexi Vontas, the newly appointed CEO of CopperTable, elaborates, &#x201c;We are thrilled to have reached an agreement with Go Fish, a company we have worked alongside for some time now. Our common mission and complementary services were acknowledged early in our working relationship and it was only a matter of time until we made the decision to join forces.&#x201d; Peter Fish, founding member of Go Fish Marketing, reiterates the importance of the merger, &#x201c;We've always focused on building strong relationships with our clients and partners, and importantly, providing a high-end offering that is we feel is unrivaled in the South African marketplace. This strategic move will accelerate that even further. The entire Go Fish team is looking forward to great things to come with this re-energising change.&#x201d; In the last quarter, Vontas played an instrumental role in the acquisition of some notable accounts including the Flight Centre Travel Group of companies and The De&#x2019;Longhi Group, who will join longer standing clients namely Cape Union Mart, JSE, Centurion Systems, Volvo Cars and Cambridge Food. &#x201c;The South African advertising industry has been undergoing an insurgency for some time now, but is close to finding its full voice. We have seen a massive shift in how brands engage agencies, and how those agencies adapt to service them, while still remaining profitable. When we started CopperTable in 2015, our mission was to enhance clients&#x2019; business operations using the power of technology, unlocking efficiencies of cost and scale, and in doing so, immediately making our clients more money than we were asking them to pay us. Today, we have enabled brands, traditional ad agencies and tech companies to do just that. Now, with the backbone Go Fish have built over the past 14 years, we can enable a broader range of these companies to enjoy enterprise level solutions without crippling them financially in the process,&#x201d; says Vontas. The rest of the shareholding in CopperTable is now held by entrepreneurs Peter Fish and Adrian Fitchet, the previous leadership of Go Fish, along with local internet disruptor giant Afrihost, who have been part of the Go Fish family since 2003. www.coppertable.co.za