Eye-catchingly impressive I was invited for a two-night stay as well as a tour of Knysna last weekend and was truly impressed by this one of a kind hotel. On entering The Turbine, one is immediately struck by the d cor; bright bursts of colour, exposed brick, eye-catching art and turbine pumps and pipes all jostle for your attention. Each of the 24 rooms are uniquely designed and styled offering views of the hotel pool and Thesen channels or Knysna Lagoon. I was placed in a super cute and airy room with a balcony overlooking the hotel pool. Each room comes standard with a large shower and separate bath, Lavazza coffee machine, mini-bar, free Wi-Fi, an iPod docking station, and a DVD player. Diverse dining The hotel offers a variety of dining options. Breakfast, lunch and dinner is served in the 90-seater Island Caf . This caf offers both al fresco dining alongside the pool or the option of dinner inside or on a second level of the caf . With a short climb up one of the steel ladders you will find your dinner table surrounded with the old power station pipes and grids - a truly special dining experience. I recommend the rich tomato-ey seafood soup as a starter and succulent sirloin with hand cut chips for main. Yummo! The hotel offers light meals and pub fare in the newly opened Gastro Pub. Sip cocktails and snack on sticky chicken wings while admiring the massive lifting hook and chains from the power plant days or head across the street to The Turbine owned Col&#x2019;Cacchio pizzeria if you're looking for delicious Italian options. Weary traveller treatments There are many activities the hotel offers, from sunset cruises to biking and kayaking. These can all be organised at the adjoining Turbine Water Club. Read more about the activity options here. Once muscles have been sufficiently worked, a visit to the hotel&#x2019;s Amani Spa would be well recommended. I was treated to The Traveller, one of the spa's signature treatments. This includes a 30-minute therapeutic foot ritual and a 30-minute neck and shoulder massage. A perfect welcome to the hotel for jet lagged travellers or perfect remedy for worn out hiking feet and kayaking shoulders. The spa offers two single treatment rooms, one treatment room for couples and a rasul - a traditional Arabian cleansing ritual. Good to note is that The Turbine Hotel boasts several eco-friendly features, including solar panels and the collection of rainwater to irrigate the gardens. If heading along the Garden Route, make sure to make a stop at Knysna and The Turbine Boutique Hotel and Spa for unique accommodation and experiences. For more info or to make a booking, go to www.turbinehotel.co.za. Had such a fab stay at #Knysna's #TurbineHotel. Thanks @theresa_gibbon @julieg_ct @mantombi.travel @beespinner! A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on Mar 25, 2017 at 11:10pm PDT How to get there Airlink &#x2013; the regional feeder airline offers a wide network of regional and domestic flights within Southern Africa and operates as a franchisee to SAA Route specific information: Direct scheduled flights between Cape Town and Durban to George. Connectivity: Through its alliance with SAA, travellers can connect with SAA, its partner airlines and other carriers throughout Southern Africa and the world. Frequent Flyer Programme: Airlink is a member of South African Airways (SAA) loyalty programme, Voyager. Flight bookings: online, booking agent or SAA Central Reservations: +27(0)119781111 or www.flyairlink.com