The range was developed as a response to the growing tendency to nibble in between work, errands and general life admin, as the time and energy available for eating balanced meals dwindles. But these snacks are often devoid of much nutritional value and contain large quantities of hidden sugars, fats and salt. &#x201c;Vital Health Foods realised that there was a need to develop a snack that contributes to nutritional needs and is also delicious,&#x201d; says Andrea du Plessis, nutritional expert at Vital Health Foods. Smart snacking According to the company, dietary guidelines from the 2014 Health Survey for England stipulate that seven to ten portions of fruit and vegetables daily are essential for good health. This figure is up from the traditional five portions per day, due to reduced nutrient density in fresh produce resulting from agricultural soil depletion, prolonged storage and processing of fresh foodstuffs. Meeting this daily requirement can be tough, which is why Vital&#x2019;s nutritional experts suggest that smart snacking plays an important role in one&#x2019;s daily nutrient intake. &#x201c;Not only do smart snacks add valuable nutrients that are scarce in staple foods, they&#x2019;re easier on the digestive system, which copes better with smaller portions eaten at intervals throughout the day than single, large, heavy meals,&#x201d; says the company. Bars, bites and air-popped rice The new Vital bars are ideal for those who suffer from sensitivities to gluten and preservatives and come in three flavours: cashew and coconut; almond and cocoa; and seed, almond and cinnamon. They also boast 12 vitamins at 100% Nutrient Reference Values (NRV), which is the daily recommended nutritional intake. The air-popped rice crisps are made from wholegrain brown and white rice and contain less than 400 kilojoules per 20g serving. They&#x2019;re free of gluten, trans fat, added MSG, preservatives and aspartame, and are a healthier alternative to potato crisps. These are available in three tasty variants: fruit chutney, sweet and spicy pepper salsa, and cream cheese and chives. Healthy is trendy Food trends can be fickle, but the awareness consumers have for what they&#x2019;re putting into their bodies is fortunately on the increase. There&#x2019;s a conscientiousness surrounding not only the nutritional content but the sourcing, processing and labelling associated with the food we eat. &#x201c;People are far more informed now about eating correctly than ever before, and the demand for smart diet choices is on the rise,&#x201d; concludes du Plessis.