Handover of the first cheque from left to right: Dr Albert van Jaarsveld, UKZN; Farouk Moosa and Abdul Razak Moosa from the Willowton Group.Abdul Razak Moosa, executive director at Willowton Group presented the first cheque of R1m to the vice chancellor Dr Albert van Jaarsveld of the University of KwaZulu-Natal. The balance of the donation, a further R4m will be made over the remaining four years. With these funds, the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) Foundation has created the Willowton Group Bursary Fund which will ensure continuity over time. The Willowton Group Bursary Fund will assist financially disadvantaged engineering and technology students from the College of Agriculture, Engineering and Science. This is in alignment with the UKZN business sector and its interest in stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship. Seven learners have received bursaries for their first year&#x2019;s tuition and an additional four recipients will be given bursaries in each of the remaining four years. The bursaries are issued for the duration of the degree, subject to the learner passing at the end of each year. Building strong society, economy &#x201c;The #feesmustfall campaign which disrupted education in 2015 and 2016 has highlighted the need for corporate business to become more involved, by financially assisting those without the resources to improve their education. Our company has made a decision to increase support for education and this donation is being made to deserving students who would not otherwise have the opportunity to attend university,&#x201d; said Moosa. &#x201c;We believe corporate business should focus on education to build a strong society and economy. All seven learners attended quantile one, two and three schools in the Pietermaritzburg area and have passed their matric certificate with flying colours. These rural schools are some of the most disadvantaged.&#x201d; The donation will be made to learners from the College of Agriculture, Engineering and Science studying science and technology qualifications at the Pietermaritzburg campus. These include chemists, computer scientists, agricultural engineers and environmental scientists. The learners were interviewed from those who applied and seven selected to receive a bursary in year one. Each of the learners will receive a full bursary inclusive of tuition fees, residence fees, meal allowance, book allowance and a laptop allowance.