South African Airways (SAA), the country&#x2019;s national carrier and the continent&#x2019;s most awarded airline, has received two prestigious awards from Business Traveler magazine in the United States. For the 10th consecutive year, the airline has been voted by readers to be the Best Airline in Africa and has received top honours for the Best Business Class to Africa. The magazine&#x2019;s readers are discerning, high-frequency business travellers, whose preferences relating to travel-related products and services are surveyed annually. In the 2016 Best in Business Travel Awards survey, readers selected 33 different travel providers in 42 different categories worldwide. These included airlines, hotel chains, car rental companies, airports, loyalty programmes and mobile technology providers. SAA&#x2019;s Premium Business Class earned accolades for such features as its 180 fully-flat bed with fluffy down pillows and plush duvets; individual on-demand entertainment system; and gourmet cuisine, which is paired with award-winning South African wines. The airline&#x2019;s welcoming and attentive in-flight service, a trademark feature, also received high praise. &#x201c;We are grateful for the recognition we have received from the readership of Business Traveler, as they are truly experienced travelers that expect the very best in airline service,&#x201d; said Todd Neuman, executive vice president- the Americas for South African Airways. &#x201c;We are proud of the legendary world-class service that SAA employees deliver to our customers, as we strive to be the carrier of choice from the U.S. to Africa, and are honored with the awards that have, once again, been bestowed upon us.&#x201d; Business Traveler readers recognise and appreciate SAA&#x2019;s 48-year history of offering convenient services to and from a number of African destinations. These services include daily nonstop flights from J.F. Kennedy International in New York and a daily direct service from Dulles International in Washington DC, both to Johannesburg. Other services include flights between Washington and Accra in Ghana four days a week, as well as flights between Washington and Dakar in Senegal three days a week. Through its extensive network, the airline and its regional partners - SA Express, Airlink and Mango - can also conveniently connect travellers to over 75 onward destinations across the continent. &#x201c;Today&#x2019;s business travellers are smart, savvy, connected and have high expectations of airline service,&#x201d; says Dan Booth, editorial director of Business Traveler. &#x201c;We therefore congratulate South African Airways for being consistently recognised among the elite in our industry by that most demanding of customers, the frequent business traveller.&#x201d; For further information about SAA and its services - or to make reservations - please visit www.flysaa.com. Bookings can also be made through SAA Reservations (011 978 5313) or professional travel consultants.