 Jorge-Chaves 123RF.comCedar Road is an important provincial arterial, linking the Lanseria area with the Fourways Precinct passing Steyn City, Dainfern, Chartwell, Broad Acres and Lone Hill. It also serves as the primary access route to the Fourways Life Hospital. Traffic volumes As with most network linkages within Gauteng&#x2019;s major residential and commercial areas, traffic volumes within the Fourways Precinct, and in particular along Cedar Road, has increase significantly over the last few years. Peak hour traffic reaches almost 2,000 vehicles and is projected to grow further in the future. Associated with this, the link is under significant strain from a capacity, as well as a pavement structure, point of view. Steyn City Properties commissioned WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff, Africa, at an early stage in the project to investigate the feasibility of upgrading Cedar Road as part of the developer&#x2019;s investment in the transport infrastructure for the region &#x2013; for improved access and sustainability of the ecosystem of the surrounding area. Pavement structure &#x201c;From our initial investigations we found that the existing Cedar Road is not in a great state, particularly from a pavement structure perspective. We also identified important capacity improvements from the regional Traffic Master Plan that are direly needed &#x2013; and once completed will add immense value for the area,&#x201d; says Francois van Rensburg, divisional director, Transportation and Infrastructure, WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff, Africa. Taking the magnitude of the work required for the upgrading and rehabilitation of the route into consideration, WSP and Steyn City Properties approached the GDRT to assist with the upgrading of Cedar Road. The provincial department considered this link an important one in their macro plan to support development of the Gauteng province and improved linkages to vital economic nodes like Fourways, Lanseria and those in between &#x2013; and entered into an agreement with the property developer. The project includes doubling the road to four lanes, two per direction, from Uranium Road up to Valley Road. However, the section of Cedar between Witkoppen has been rehabilitated without additional lanes. At various intersections additional turning lanes will be constructed, with traffic signals upgraded at the Lombardy intersection. Stormwater systems The existing road will also be rehabilitated to accommodate the increased traffic loads. Furthermore, stormwater systems and non-motorised transport facilities will be provided along the route &#x2013; where some current stormwater problems experienced at the intersection of Frederick and Cedar Road will also be addressed. To improve traffic and pedestrian safety, the project team is also in discussions with Joburg City Power regarding the installation of street lighting along the route. &#x201c;This will be the second phase for the upgrading of Cedar Road, as the phase for the project was completed for the section of Cedar Road from Valley Road up to Runnymead in 2016. The project was completed with great success and the contractor met all the procurement targets. We anticipate that the second phase will achieve the same success and the new contract will certainly encourage employment, skills development opportunities, training and economic empowerment to the local community,&#x201d; adds van Rensburg. Contract value The contract value for this second phase equates to approximately R67m. The project will be constructed over eleven months and the specific targets have been set in the construction contract to secure the involvement of SMEs and the empowerment of local labour. 30% of all labour on the project must be sourced locally, while 40% of the contract value must be spent through the utilisation of qualified SMEs, BBBEE contractors and woman-owned suppliers and sub-contractors. &#x201c;The expected value that these upgrades will offer to the local area cannot be underestimated. We are conscious though that there may be some inconvenience to commenters during the construction phase, as the project is limited in available road reserves to accommodate the existing traffic. However, while construction is undertaken Cedar Road will be widened on both sides, in as far as possible, to address this challenge. Motorists however, are also asked to be patient and considerate of the conditions during the construction period,&#x201d; concludes van Rensburg.