Royalty Free Photo The location of your business You should think carefully about where you want to operate in the UK. Ideally, you want your business to be located close to areas where large numbers of potential clients are present. However, your current financial situation will determine where you eventually set up an agency or an office for your new business. Other considerations you need to be aware of include the facilities in the building you will trade from, whether or not you will buy the office space you use or lease it, the utilities you need for your business (find the relevant energy company numbers at the link) and whether your office is in an area that is attractive to potential employees. Services you will provide Today, marketing covers a wide range of online and offline activities. From the beginning, you need to decide what marketing areas and marketing strategies you will specialise in. This will be determined by the experience you already have and the resources you have available. In most cases, new marketing agencies start off with a few marketing services and eventually build up the list of services they can provide to their clients. Employees A modern marketing agency requires a number of different marketing professionals to do this type of work. Some of the expertise required in this kind of organisation includes graphic design, web design, project management, SEO and social media management. As the owner of a business, you have to decide who to hire and whether to hire freelance staff or full-time staff to carry out these duties. Business visas and permission to trade in the UK If you are moving to the UK from another country, you must find out what business visas, permits and other documentation you need before you can trade in the UK. Different countries from around the world have different agreements with the UK, so check out what conditions apply to your personal circumstances. As well as getting clearance to work in the UK, you have to abide by certain business rules. Make sure you choose the correct business structure for your business or if you already have a business, find out if you can legally trade in the UK and also ensure that you follow the relevant tax procedures. Advertising your marketing business It's important to get the word out about your new business and as a marketing professional you&#x2019;re in the perfect position to do this effectively. Create a high-quality website and social media pages that connect with your target audience and are relevant to them. The UK is one of the best places in the world to set up a marketing-related business. If you consider each of the factors above, you will find it much easier to establish this type of company in the UK.