With 28 years in radio, it is no wonder that our breakfast host of 180withBob, presenter Bob Mabena, was nominated in the Best Breakfast Presenter category. In 2012, he was entered into the Hall of Fame and won Best Breakfast Show in 2013. Congratulations goes out to Nicky B our Sunday night presenter for the World Show, who is a finalist in three categories: Best Music Show; Best Night Time Show and Weekend Radio Show. Nicky B celebrates her 20th year with Kaya FM. Leading the talk shows, the seasoned presenter John Perlman for Today with John Perlman, was entered into the Hall of Fame in 2010. He won Best News & Actuality Show in 2011 and in 2013 won the Best News & Actuality Presenter. This year John Perlman is a finalist in the News and Actuality Show category. Providing the fuel behind our talk shows, Kaya FM &#x2018;s Executive Producer for Talk, Ncebakazi Manzi, and up-and-coming producer with only a year under her belt, Masego Tlhakanye, are nominated in the Content Producer category. Thuli Magubane for her popular financial advisory show, My Money & Me, is a finalist in combined category Business & Finance Show. An exciting collaboration with RadioHeads and Brandhouse in the Johnny Walker Wager has been nominated in the Multi-Channel Promotion. Keeping Afropolitans sane on the roads, Kgomotso Meso (not a stranger to this award, won it in 2012 and 2015) and Mvangeli Nzuza are finalists in the Traffic Presenter Category. Sandile van Heerden, presenter on Home Straight, Kaya FM's leading sports show, is a finalist in the Sports Presenter category. Late Night with Bridget Masinga has less than seven months on air and is already a finalist in the Night Time show category. Determined to bring not only breaking news but relevant news to the Afropolitans, Tunicia Phillips and Nomsa Zwane are finalists in the Field News Reporter category. Another highlight for the Afropolitan weekend is The Art of Sunday with Brenda Sisane, who is our second finalist for the Weekend Radio Show category. The Liberty Radio Awards will announce the winners on 22 April 2017. The Liberty Radio Awards aims to present a credible, well-judged transparent programme that promotes and recognises excellence in radio, with the objective of ensuring that radio remains one of South Africa's foremost media choices. It's about rewarding those individuals and organisations who combine talent, hard work and skill to ensure that their listeners are compelled.