Says IAB SA CEO, Josephine Buys, &#x201c;In just one day, Summit attendees will be exposed to some of the latest digital trends, techniques and insights that will have an impact on their business immediately and for years to come. If digital touches any aspect of your business, this is a critical event to attend.&#x201d; (c) kasto - 123RF.com How digital trends shape our audiences Lee Naik, CEO of Transunion Africa will examine how the Internet has forever changed the way people go about their lives and the implications this has for businesses and governments in remaining relevant. He will cover some of the key Internet trends across Africa, and share practical advice on how to change your business model to drive your competitive advantage in this increasingly digital world. Accenture Interactive, Diamond Sponsor for the IAB Digital Summit, has announced Didier Uljasz, MD of Accenture Interactive, as its keynote speaker. Uljasz will discuss &#x2018;The art of knowing me: the customer genome and the new state of hyper-personalisation&#x2019;. This presentation is rooted in Accenture Interactive&#x2019;s groundbreaking research into the digital customer genome. How to make advertising great again Alexandra Salomon, director International: IAB (Washington DC) will discuss the four key principles of what makes advertising great and how IAB and its members can be part of it. Consumer attention is shifting to mobile and video is a tremendous opportunity for brands to connect with people. Great advertising stirs desire but mobile advertising isn&#x2019;t yet hitting the mark. Leonel Silva, director: Media Partnerships EMEA at Celtra, Inc. will show how mobile brand storytelling can adapt to drive the return on investment advertisers seek, using powerful examples and highlighting global best practice. Creating verified, authentic content Melissa Attree, creative director for Ogilvy PR will unpack the key trends that will disrupt the content marketing space over the next year. Lunga Ngcime, Digital Marketing lead for Unilever Africa will provide up to the minute examples on how a brand of Unilever&#x2019;s scale and reach into Africa approaches content in a mobile connected world. Measuring digital success Ryan Smit, head of Measurement for the IAB Measurement Council, feels that investment in digital will only thrive once we can sustainably measure our return on investment. He will anticipate the future direction of digitised media measurement. Jessy Severins, Monetisation Yield & Product manager for eBay Classifieds Group, will use her experience in managing the programmatic and platform-driven revenue channels of Gumtree.co.za and Mexico-based Vivanuncios.com.mx to discuss the trends which will shape the media industry in the next five years. The new face of radio and TV Traditional media is not dead, but is undergoing tectonic shifts in the face of the digital revolution. Thabo Molefe (Tbo Touch), Touch Central co-founder believes the future of radio lies in digital, and will bring the numbers and insights from his renowned #datamustfall campaign to prove it. Television is also more interactive than ever before. Fahmeeda Cassim Surtee, group marketing and sales director DStv will use the widely successful case of the show &#x2018;Our Perfect Wedding&#x2019; to show what happens when digital marries TV. The IAB Digital Summit, powered by Accenture Interactive, will be held on 16 March 2017 at The Galleria in Sandton from 9am until 3:30pm. Standard, non-member Summit tickets cost R1,950 while IAB SA members can get their tickets for R1,690. Bookmark Awards tickets are on sale for R1,090 for both the awards and after party or R450 for the after party only. To book tickets and for more information on the IAB Digital Summit & Bookmarks click here.