BET.co.za, the South African online bookmaker, today announced the launch of their first mobile app, available for iOS. Developed in partnership with 4i in South Africa&#x2019;s technological hub at Technopark in Stellenbosch, the BET.co.za app will offer punters a new way to experience the adrenaline-filled world of sports betting. Hailed as the latest step in their bid to simplify sports betting and make it easily accessible to the sports-loving South African public, the BET.co.za app gives punters the opportunity to bet on sports, horse racing and lucky numbers anywhere, anytime. With the app, users will be able to select only the sports they want to bet on and get live statistics from matches going on around the globe. "We're genuinely excited to announce the release of the BET.co.za iOS app," says Scott Canny, CEO of BET.co.za. "Our mission is to make betting as easy as possible for all South African sports fans and this is a huge step in the right direction. The app offers all the functionality of our web and mobisite in a more convenient format. We've also added some cool new features, such as being able to filter your favourite sports (in case badminton isn't your thing). This is just the beginning, and we'll be constantly improving and adding more functionality as we gather feedback from our punters, before launching our android app later this year." The BET.co.za app features: In-play betting complete with live statistics in real time Personalised betting allows users to choose only the sports they want to bet on Touch ID allows users to get their bets on quickly and securely BET Boosts, promotions and exclusive offers </li></li></li> About BET.co.za The name says it all really &#x2013; we&#x2019;re a betting company. While that&#x2019;s a bit oversimplified, we&#x2019;ll spare you the time of reading through a long list of adjectives and marketing jargon. At BET.co.za we fancy a punt. In 2010, we took a chance on ourselves and it&#x2019;s worked out pretty well so far. Since then we&#x2019;ve grown to become one of South Africa&#x2019;s premier online bookmakers, operating www.bet.co.za as well as a chain of retail outlets across the country. So whether you enjoy watching your bets arrive in the midst of complete strangers, or while shouting at your computer screen, BET.co.za is there 24 hours a day with industry leading customer support to match. Founded by true betting people, BET.co.za&#x2019;s commitment is to the punter, first and foremost. We aim to provide our customers with the best possible betting experience, in-store or online. The anguished shrieks and victorious roars of the betting game are commonplace in the hallways of BET Central. It is our love of this game that enables us to come up with betting promotions and BET Boosts that strike a chord with our customers.