Says PRISA CEO Adele Paulsen &#x201c;This year&#x2019;s conference will provide a platform to discuss new technologies and innovative approaches to leadership and communication by some of the most the most influential and thought-provoking thinkers in the industry. Maxim BeharMaxim Behar, president of International Communications Consultancy Organisation (ICCO) and CEO and chairman of the M3 Communication Group Inc. will deliver the keynote address on Thursday 4 May 2017. Commenting on his participation in this year&#x2019;s PRISA conference, Behar said &#x201c;It is a great honour to share with South African friends and colleagues my vision on the latest trends in our field. We all know that Public Relations is amongst the fastest changing businesses in the world. Forums and discussions as the one organised by PRISA will strongly benefit all participants.&#x201d; Behar is a leading global public relations expert. He is known in Bulgaria, as the communication guru, with many calling him "a global institution." He is a regular presenter on public relations and social media topics to world leaders, practitioners, students and opinion makers. Recently, Behar was named Communicator of the Decade by the Indian Business Communications Association and was voted as &#x201c;Manager of the Year&#x201d; in Bulgaria by leading magazine, Manager. Behar is also Honorary Consul General of the Republic of Seychelles in Bulgaria. He is Chairman of the Board of World Communications Forum in Davos, Switzerland and, Chairman of the Board of Trustees for Our Children Foundation, also Member of the board of the World PR Museum in New York. His latest book, Generation F, reached the top four in sales on Amazon (2012). His previous books, 111 Rules on Facebook and Secondary Instinct, were considered best sellers. Thabisile Phumo&#x201c;We are excited about the line up at this year`s conference, which comes a year after we revised our strategic intent and have embarked on a membership focused journey. We are excited to have reached this significant milestone and are confident that we will continue to serve the interests of our members well into the future,&#x201d; said Thabisile Phumo, President of PRISA. Joining Behar as speakers and panel discussion hosts at the PRISA National conference will be more than 30 local and international thought leaders in the public relations and communication industry, including a delegation from the International Communications Consultancy Organisation (ICCO).