Image source: www.lvdcconference.com&#x201c;Combined with some form of energy storage, LVDC has the potential to bring millions of people out of the dark. The IEC is driving the development of LVDC, making this technology safe and broadly accessible. Holding this conference in Africa will provide a real understanding of electricity access needs to IEC experts and stakeholders. We invite participation of all those concerned with the Sustainable Developments Goals, especially Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all,&#x201d; says Frans Vreeswijk, general secretary and CEO of the IEC. Engaging with policymakers, regulators The LVDC Conference on Sustainable Electricity Access aims to bring together a diverse group of stakeholders including policymakers, power utilities, equipment manufacturers, NGOs, technology gurus, industry experts, systems engineers, funding agencies and insurers. &#x201c;I urge all stakeholders to register and attend the conference which will be a thought leadership platform to effectively engage with policymakers and regulators. This event will help us to gain the technological and economic information needed to evolve LVDC standards and drive the technology&#x2019;s commercialisation,&#x201d; says Charles Ongwae, MD, Kenya Bureau of Standards. Comments Vimal Mahendru, chair of the IEC Systems Committee (SyC) on LVDC, and IEC ambassador, &#x201c;For areas where grid connection is too expensive, LVDC is the only economic way to provide electricity access to everyone: it is clean, safe and affordable. The applications for LVDC are wide, varied and apply in every country in the world. This conference is your opportunity to input your local needs and requirements; to hear about economic benefits linked to LVDC; and to contribute to the development of key performance and risk assessment indicators to allow regulators and systems administrators to benchmark LVDC solutions.&#x201d; For more info on the LVDC Conference on Sustainable Electricity Access, go to www.lvdcconference.com.