 Andriy Popov 123RF.comBusinesses want to save money. In fact, they&#x2019;re expected to. In our recent Digital Dislocation report, we found IT decision-makers need to cut down on how much they&#x2019;re spending on mobile costs and roaming charges - nearly two in three need to bring down business costs. On the other hand, people want to balance work and life. They want to work on the move and use lots of collaboration tools. In fact, nearly two in three workers are frustrated with the time they waste contacting colleagues. And nearly 75% of employees long for easier ways to share information. Yet collaboration technology can help with both. If people want to work on the move, and business leaders need to cut down on travel costs &#x2013; collaboration technology is the obvious choice. It cuts down on operational costs, and lets you skip paying for that flight abroad for a single meeting. The investment can pay off in other ways, too. You can beat your competitor to market, by helping your people make decisions faster. And you can even earn more, by using the same tools to improve your customer relationships and share information between departments much better. As an added bonus, you can even cut down on your customer service costs. Matt McKayAnd let&#x2019;s not forget that time is money. If your people are using their time better, if they&#x2019;re being more productive, then you&#x2019;re getting more work done for the same salary. The trick is in using the right processes. Where some companies fall down, and don&#x2019;t get the benefit of collaboration technology, is not having the right processes and workflows in place. Out-of-date communications infrastructure and limited investment in new technology are holding back the introduction of new collaboration technologies that employees want to use, resulting in employees increasingly bringing their own devices to work. And this brings certain risks for large organisations around the world. What&#x2019;s more, it isn&#x2019;t enough to just introduce videoconferencing, for example. You need to make it part of your culture, and you need to make the user experience great, so people want to use it. It needs to become a part of everybody&#x2019;s work. Make sure you give your people the training they need, and get your leaders to embrace the technology and use it. The rest of your people will follow then by example. So if you want to save money and increase productivity, take one small step for your beleaguered colleagues trying to communicate with each other and embrace collaboration.