Image Source: De KransDe Krans Tritonia White 2015 is now joining the flagship red wine, De Krans Tritonia Red (Calitzdorp Blend, made from Touriga Nacional, Tinta Roriz, and Tinta Barocca). This maiden 2015 Tritonia White is produced from Malvasia Rei (also known as the Palomino Fino) and Verdelho grapes. Planted in 1947, the Malvasia Rei vineyard was almost forgotten and ready to be replaced with a new vineyard. However, this almost 70-year-old vineyard was producing perfectly low yields of small berries of superior quality. This allowed winemaker Louis van der Riet and his team to produce this unique blend of Malvasia Rei (85%) and Verdelho (15 %). This union has created the perfect opportunity to showcase the Klein Karoo&#x2019;s forgotten legacy. A beautiful golden yellow colour, Louis describes the Tritonia White as showing subtle flavours of honeysuckle, orange peel and straw on the nose, which are further enhanced with floral blossom, spice, and vanilla oak nuances. The palate delivers a smooth and elegant wine with flavours of dried orange, nuts, and soft oak. This is perfect to partner with seafood, especially salmon and sea trout. A twist of fate A Twist of Fate is simply just that, a mistake that went incredibly well. Co-owner Boets Nel&#x2019;s father Chris had planted what he thought was Shiraz in 1973 only to discover that it was, in fact, Tinta Barocca, making it the first Portuguese grape to find its way to Calitzdorp. In another twist of fate, Boets and his brother, Stroebel, planted what they believed was Tinta Roriz, when, in fact, it was Tinta Amarella. Instead of pulling out these vineyards, it resulted in a beautiful union of Tinta Barocca (50 %) and Tinta Amarella (50 %), which is now known as A Twist of Fate. Van der Riet describes this maiden 2015 vintage as a wine with a striking cherry red colour, showcasing sweet strawberry flavours. This carries through to complex underlying flavours of spice, leather, earthiness and subtle oak. The palate delivers red berry and spicy flavours, resulting in smooth tannins and an integrated acidity. Without a doubt the perfect wine to enjoy at a braai. As a &#x2018;twist&#x2019; enjoy chilled for the perfect summer red wine.