In 2016, we took on Thato Selau as our new design intern and we&#x2019;ve been blown away by his immense talent, work ethic, and positivity &#x2013; so much so that we offered him a permanent position in 2017, and were delighted when he decided to join our team as our junior designer. We caught up with Thato to hear all about the last year, his new role, and his plans for the future. What excites you most about your new position, and what are you looking forward to most? I&#x2019;m excited about the new challenges, opportunities and experiences that&#x2019;ll come with being a junior designer at Worx Group, and I&#x2019;m looking forward to expanding my craft and learning more about design (and the business of design). Looking at the team I have, this is all possible. What&#x2019;s your favourite part about working at Worx Group? My favourite part about working for WG has to be the positive and supporting attitude that this company has. Team effort and determination form part on the structure holding this company together. No one ever feels left out, from the execs, to the team leaders, and all the way to the support staff. What was your proudest achievement and your highlight of last year? I was incredibly proud of our Impact Trust work wih Casa do Sol school &#x2013; I had to do a school play programme for their anniversary. The feedback I received from school staff really made my week. It always feels good to see an Impact partner happy because of the work you do. And through all the hard work that we do here, a highlight has to be the way that the team always finds fun ways to boost our working spirit. From planking through meetings (yes, planking), to getting massages while we work, every day becomes a highlight for me here. Who can forget the In the Mix sessions! What was the biggest thing you learnt as a Worx Group intern? Putting your clients at the heart of the business turns a good company into a great one (and you can do all this while having some fun/changing your colleague&#x2019;s desktop wallpaper). What would your advice be for other interns? Hard work gets noticed around here! And a good sense of humour. Where do you see yourself in five years? I see myself being more than just a designer. I&#x2019;d love to explore the business side of design, and build my own brand from it. A concept store is a good start for me.