 gajus 123RF.com&#x201c;The Hope Factory not only changed my life and those of my employees; but created many opportunities for other small companies to whom we outsourced most of our services,&#x201d; says Khulile Nondabula of ZONO Brands. Since 2001, The Hope Factory&#x2019;s purpose remains to grow people, develop businesses and impact communities through its results driven mentorship model. The Hope Factory offers its impactful entrepreneurial development programme to registered businesses in Gauteng and Nelson Mandela Bay. In addition, it offers a Socio-Economic Development Programme; the Personal Development in Business programme geared towards non-registered, start-up businesses in Nelson Mandela Bay. These programmes are based on the effective coverage of three main areas namely: Business Skills Mastery, Leadership (Personal) Development and Financial Excellence. The model follows a Holistic Incubation Process over a 12 month period and covers a wide range of entrepreneur development interventions necessary to develop sustainable growth in programme beneficiaries. The Hope Factory entrepreneur development model places mentorship at the core of its programmes. This mentorship approach, through the transference of knowledge and skills, aims to make a measurable difference in the development of small businesses. In order to provide a holistic yet comprehensive programme, the mentoring curriculum has seven key outcomes: compliance; human resources; quality and standards; IT; finance and leadership development; and strategic planning - including business model, sales and marketing strategy. The focus for the 2017 Programme is in the following sectors: ICT; Construction; Manufacturing; Business Development services; Automotive; Tourism; Agriculture and Renewable Energy. Entrepreneurs in any one of these sectors who require the tools and development needed to overcome key business challenges should apply. Interested entrepreneurs can visit www.thehopefactory.co.za or contact The Hope Factory offices at (JHB) +27 (0)11 479 0638 or (PE) +27 (0)41 484 7400 for more information.