The sold-out family day was a treat for Kaya listeners as the event was hosted for the first time in Rietvlei, south-east of Johannesburg. Picnic spots were selected, gazebos were erected and listeners got down to enjoying the festivities of the day. Kaya presenter George Munetsi of Georgie in the Afternoon got the crowd excited with his quirky rendition of songs and hilarious links. The mood was not dampened by the rain that came down for a few minutes in the morning. The showers did not last long and Thembisile Ntaka then took to the stage with her mesmerising performance of songs including Thula and Sthandwa sami. She took the crowd on a nostalgic journey with her soulful renditions of Brenda Fassie&#x2019;s Black President. Station DJs and personalities kept the masses on their feet as they played the best of rhythm and blues, soul and afro-soul. Amongst them was Kuli Roberts, Kgomotso Meso and MoG. Comedian Skhumba Hlope had the audience in stitches as he presented the African Bank prize money to lucky concert-goers who entered at the venue entrance. Kids played in the park and enjoyed the complimentary caps and floaters from African Bank. The day ended off with headliner Jaziel brothers giving a great performance, including new material from their album, Out of the Box. The audience sang along to their hits, Ngeke ngiphinde, Woza and Ngihamba nawe. Commenting on the day, African Bank Head of Marketing Kaibe Mollo said, &#x201c;We were so proud to be part of an event that brings together so many Afropolitans and really epitomises family and community. At African Bank we&#x2019;re all about serving, uplifting, motivating and inspiring our communities to do better and this was a wonderful opportunity to interact and engage with our customers and potential customers. Our slogan, after all, is &#x201c;We are you&#x201d;. Sincere thanks to Kaya and everyone who attended the day.&#x201d; After a fabulous afternoon of activities and music Afropolitans can look forward to the next family day, 9 April, at the Walter Sisulu Botanical Gardens. Look out for more information online at kayafm.co.za.