This froms part of its first campaign for the client, which officially launched at the beginning of the month when the new range was revealed, followed by the release of the emoji chatbot last week which forms part of the user engagement phase. &#x201c;It&#x2019;s always exciting for us to work with a brand like Avon and with a team who are willing to take a chance on something new that will disrupt the market, and in doing so help develop and nurture their brand,&#x201d; says Liquorice founder and CEO Miles Murphy. &#x201c;We couldn&#x2019;t be more proud of the innovative personalised video bot work we&#x2019;ve had a chance to create for Mark Liquid Lip Matte, and this is just the first part of what we are seeing as a long and successful partnership with Avon.&#x201d; How it works: On Avon&#x2019;s Facebook page, you&#x2019;re encouraged (OK somewhat tempted) to send three emojis that best describe you via Facebook Messenger. The bot then replies with a video that showcases what your emojis say about you and recommends the lip shade from the range that best suits your personality. If you like what you see, you can share the video on social media (watch mine below) and order the product from an Avon representative in your area. After playing with the bot, I got back to work (feeling rather flattered...&#xd83d;&#xde17;) and interviewed Bianca Joynt, business unit director at Liquorice&#x2019;s Johannesburg office to find out the thinking behind this innovative Facebook Messenger bot campaign and why it's relevant to the Avon brand. What sparked the idea to develop a personalised video bot using Facebook Messenger to launch the range? The Mark target audience love the freedom of self-expression that make-up gives them. They want their look to reflect how they feel at any given time, giving the world a real reflection of who they are. They also want on-the-go content, which is easy to engage with, speaks to them and not at them, and shows that they are integral to the brand. Developing the Facebook Messenger bot seemed like the perfect medium through which our audience could quickly engage as well as receive on-the-fly video content no matter where they are. This also meant that the content could be delivered according to their personality and even their mood with a range of emojis at hand, giving them the perfect lip shade no matter what the day had in store. How does the campaign digitally portray the way Avon sells its products through its representatives? Avon&#x2019;s business model is focused around representatives, a network of women who sell directly to the end-consumer. This links in with Avon&#x2019;s brand mission &#x2013; Beauty with a Purpose &#x2013; which aims to empower women in the way their products do. What this means is that the Avon&#x2019;s purchasing process is personal, always one-on-one, which allows the women to develop partnerships and friendships with the women they sell to, and empower each other. The campaign Liquorice developed is really around the personalisation of the content, from the fans chatting directly to Avon, through to submitting emojis that represent who they are, right down to the video content that speaks to them and tells them what their emojis say about them and also their perfect lip shade match. Ending in the consumer being able to purchase their Mark Liquid Lip shade straight from the rep, starting this personal journey with them. What makes it innovative? How is it disrupting the market? The innovation lies in the way the Facebook Messenger bot has been developed and serves the content. Fans don&#x2019;t just see one single video that speaks in part to them, but rather is delivered bespoke content that is about them and who they are. The innovation is in the way the bot uses the emojis submitted and based on this, through an integrated API, slices a customised video together in real-time that speaks directly to the fan&#x2019;s personality. It&#x2019;s no longer about generic content that tries to speak to everyone, but rather individualised and personalised content that makes our audience connect with the brand and product, and doesn&#x2019;t leave anyone out. Why is innovation important, especially when it comes to digital? We all know that digital is a continually evolving space with new tools, new technologies and new ways to engage. What this means is that what was innovative and cool one day, is mainstream and old the next. Innovation is what keeps digital fresh and keeps brands at the forefront of advertising, ensuring that audiences are continually engaged in interactive ways that speak to their lifestyle. Innovation is about creating continued ease for the consumer and giving them what they need, when they need it and how they need it. And with digital being a continued touchpoint in the lives of our audiences, digital has the power, playground and onus to innovate to continue enriching the lives of the consumer. Comment on your work with the Avon brand team and Facebook Africa. Working with the Avon brand team has been incredibly exciting and invigorating as they have been so open to going on this innovation journey. Digital is a key focus for Avon moving forward and together we are hoping to drive innovation within digital and within the category for Avon. Having Facebook behind us 100% has also meant that the work is collaborative and of the best quality for the brand within the channel. Overall, we are lucky to have both the brand team and Facebook working with us to produce truly innovative work together. EXCLUSIVE: Liquorice wins Avon accountFollowing an extensive and competitive pitch, digital marketing agency Liquorice has been appointed Avon South Africa's digital and social media agency of record...27 Jul 2017 What is the desired result? Our aim is to allow the audience to engage with the Avon brand in a way that they&#x2019;ve never done before. We want to incentivise this engagement through creating bespoke content that reflects what the brand embodies &#x2013; Beauty with a Purpose. Our message empowers the audience to share a piece of their personality through engaging with the campaign. Then of course, ultimately, we want to increase brand awareness and encourage trial or purchase through the representative base. The campaign runs until mid-October. What&#x2019;s next? We have a lot of exciting work coming up with Avon, so all we can say is to keep watching this space as we continue this partnership with them and really showcase Avon in the digital space. With such a diverse range of products and audiences, the possibilities are endless with what can be done on digital, and with such an exceptional brand team to work with, we can&#x2019;t wait to show consumers what Avon is all about.