Ross Volk"The focus now", Volk says, "is to build on the already powerful reputation of MSC Cruises by nurturing deeper collaboration and enhancing partnerships so that we&#x2019;re stronger than ever before to respond to socio-economic changes in a positive and effective manner." Luca Biondolillo, MSC&#x2019;s chief communications officer, said that the launch of the Meraviglia formed part of a &#x20ac;9bn (R131bn) 10-year investment plan to introduce 11 new ships to the fleet, which currently consists of a total of 12 ships. The investment plan includes an increase in workforce by another 55,000 in the next 10 years. Built from the ground up, this ship has been dubbed &#x2018;a ship for all seasons&#x2019; and it will be able to dock at any cruise port around the world, which means we&#x2019;ll see it setting sail across many-a-shore in the future. Some of the features of the 315m-long MSC Meraviglia include:96m central promenade is filled with boutiques, 12 dining venues and tranquil spots for shopping, eating, and relaxing, complete with a giant 480m2 LED screen spanning the entire ceiling of the inside promenade transmitting visual magic around the clock &#x2013; the longest LED dome at sea. Spacious pools with poolside entertainment (a big screen at the Atmosphere pool and an open-air dance floor at night at the Horizon pool)A luxurious Balinese spa and state-of-the-art gym. Entertainment in the form of exclusive Cirque du Soleil performances, a water park boasting four waterslides, a high-tech TV studio and bar, casino, nightclubs, and sports centre, F1 simulators and full-size bowling alleys, baby and kiddies centres (in partnership with Lego), as well as teens clubs.</li></li></li> Musica manoeuvres to SA Specific to South African shores, the 2018/2019 cruise season holds a special surprise for holiday-makers; the MSC Musica will be replacing the MSC Sinfonia on its Portuguese Island cruises for the 2018/2019 season. According to Volk, the Muscia has been specially adjusted to suit South African ports and offers a lot more room on board, boasting a total of 1,275 cabins - whereas the Sinfonia has 980, which means the Musica is able to carry at least 540 more passengers. Although the Sinfonia was refurbished just three years ago and is one of MSC&#x2019;s most modern ships, the South African market is clearly demanding more, and MSC is showing their commitment by offering a vessel more able to accommodate the growing number of those seeking a voyage. MSC Musica MSC sets sail to Pomene Bay The 2017/2018 season will also see the cruise line setting sail to its new destination, Pomene, in Mozambique, with a planned 18 departures visiting Pomene Bay or a combination of both Pomene Bay and Portuguese Islands from October. 605km north of Maputo, Pomene Bay is lauded as one of Mozambique&#x2019;s hidden jewels, surrounded by the calm waters of the Indian Ocean, beautiful white beaches and the crystal clear waters of a mangrove estuary. Pomene Bay More to come The MSC Seaside, the largest cruise ship ever to be constructed by Italian builder, Fincantieri, is due to enter year-round service in the Caribbean as of December 2017. Think seafront promenades, beach-like condos, the most interactive aqua park at sea, glass-walled atriums and panoramic elevators. Think an experience that brings you closer to the sea than ever before. For more, go to www.msccruises.co.za.