Rogerwilco received the nod for its WOLF Performance Marketing Tool, which helps marketers to generate evidence-based decisions when choosing focus areas for content marketing programmes. The company developed the tool in-house after seeing significant fluctuations in the levels of engagement achieved by individual content pieces they produced, as part of the broader content marketing and SEO campaigns run for clients. &#x201c;To refine our clients&#x2019; content marketing programmes and improve success rates, we recognised the need to analyse more data. Lots more data. And this is how the story of WOLF got started,&#x201d; explains Charlie Stewart, CEO of Rogerwilco. Marketers begin by providing WOLF with a few keywords or phrases, where it starts crawling the internet to find similar terms that people are using in social media conversations or in web searches. WOLF then extracts data to see how frequently these terms are employed and establishes if there are seasonal changes in the frequency of their use. Next, WOLF interrogates Google to see what web pages rank for these terms, and then analyses the actual content on these pages to spot opportunities. The resultant dataset provides ideas for content strategy that are likely to prove popular but are relatively uncontested, helping to build campaigns that are both unique and likely to find the right audience. The WOLF Performance Marketing Tool was initially reserved for exclusive use by Rogerwilco, but will be made available to brands and agencies as software-as-a-service (Saas) in the coming months. This is not the first time that WOLF has been honoured, having won an Assegai Award for Database & Analytics Innovation, also taking home two IAB Bookmark Awards last month for Use of Research and Web Applications. &#x201c;Being on the shortlist for such a prestigious award is a privilege and certainly acknowledges all the hard work that the Rogerwilco team put into creating the WOLF Performance Marketing Tool,&#x201d; concludes Stewart. The annual Digiday Content Marketing Awards is seen as one of the highest accolades for content marketers and has companies across the globe competing for honours. Previous winners include The Coca-Cola Company, Cond Nast, USA Today Network and Oracle Marketing Cloud. The award ceremony is set to take place on 9 May 2017 in New York City.