Over 200 million native ad impressions from publishing groups like Times Media, Mail & Guardian or IOL will be made available for purchase by any marketer or business owner looking to engage their target audiences across South Africa's most premium inventory. "We've made a conscious decision to remove ourselves from the advertiser - publisher relationship, making ad opportunities available with fewer phone calls, emails, and middlemen. Campaigns can be set up and paid for in five minutes or less, allowing publishers to be as competitive as Facebook or Google at servicing businesses outside of the agency spectrum." - declared Mihai Fanache - CEO and founder of The Newsroom. The platform comes with a Run-of-Network pricing option that starts with a floor price of R5 per click, and goes up as more targeting, geo locations or inventory granularity is added. Advertisers can create audience segments and re-target consumers that have engaged with previous campaigns or visited their site in the past. While the platform is intended to be fully self-explanatory - expert customer support will be available from Newsroom campaign specialists so that advertisers can adequately understand the capabilities and benefits of the platform. "We've looked at a whole range of options for opening up more of our supply programmatically - but opted for our owned and operated system for maximum brand safety and commercial sense for our partners." - added Carl Jordan, country manager of The Newsroom in South Africa. "We welcome this move by the newsroom to introduce small and medium sized business to native advertising. As a strategic publishing partner of the newsroom we are utilizing all aspects of their platform - editorial, native, programmatic and brand studio. With this in mind, in our view, their decision will accelerate growth of the native advertising ecosystem in South Africa and by extension benefit the IOL business." - declared Chris Naidoo - commercial director at IOL. The platform was made available at www.thenewsroom.co.za For more information - please contact: oi.moorsweneht&#64;ittelongaps.xela