In his opening remarks, G rard P lisson the co-founder of the AccorHotels group stated: &#x201c;This new opening is a testament to the trust that your country, Algeria, has placed in us. Our partnership is primarily driven by the willingness of two major groups to jointly create wealth in a country as ambitious as Algeria.&#x201d; Steven Daines, CEO of AccorHotels for Africa and the Middle East, added: &#x201c;AccorHotels thus reinforces is position as the leading international hotel operator in Algeria with a network of 10 hotels ranging from the luxury to economy segments. Our Algerian customers will be able to enjoy our latest Novotel and ibis concepts in Setif.&#x201d; &#x201c;We are very proud of this new site, which is part of the ongoing dynamics of the city of Setif. The enhancement of the hotel offering in this crossroads town contributes to the economic development and tourism in the region. GIMMO now has seven hotels including five ibis and two Novotel,&#x201d; declared Djilali Mehri, CEO of GIMMO. Setif lies at a strategic intersection, with many transits, as well as economic and commercial exchanges. With 1.7 million inhabitants, the wilaya ranks second nationwide after the region of Algiers. The Novotel and ibis Setif site is ideally located in downtown Setif, a stone&#x2019;s throw away from the Park Mall, the biggest Mall in Algeria that attracts visitors from all over the country. This &#x201c;combo&#x201d; spreads over six floors: a 120-room Novotel including two suites, a 120-room ibis and conference center with a 350-person capacity. Novotel Setif adapts to business and leisure customers Ideally located in the heart of downtown, the new Novotel Setif offers contemporary and spacious living facilities, with 120 rooms and a state-of-the-art lobby. Designed to meet the needs of international and domestic customers, it offers a complete range of services to ensure each guest fully enjoys their stay. Chic and comfortable rooms With its 120 latest generation rooms, the hotel places an emphasis on space and wellness. The rooms adapt to the different needs of travellers and offer great comfort: high-end bedding, mini bar, 40&#x2019;&#x2019; TV, a spacious and flexible desk space, fully equipped bathroom, environmentally-friendly hotel amenities, and of course, Wi-Fi access. The hotel also offers two suites and one floor dedicated to executive rooms with additional services: complimentary minibar and a Nespresso machine. Additionally, there is a restaurant with a contemporary design that can seat up to 100 guests, variable lighting conditions depending on the time and background music. The menu includes a variety of revisited traditional dishes, as well as a lighter offering for mobile customers. The customer can enjoy the bar and lounge area to relax and eat at any time. The hotel offers customised services for the organisation of small and medium-sized meetings: a 420 m conference room with a contemporary design that can accommodate up to 350 people, five modular meeting rooms with the latest state-of-the-art equipment: a high-end projector, acoustic panels, sound system, etc. A new generation ibis The ibis Setif has a construction that remains faithful to the brand's objective in terms of comfort and modernity. Both modern and warm, the facility offers 120 rooms, including two rooms for persons with reduced mobility (PRMs). Travellers will dive into a unique and original experience in the economy hotel segment. The rooms are all equipped with the Sweet Bed by ibis bedding, with a soft comforter and pillows, a 28&#x2019;&#x2019; flat-screen LCD TV, a spacious bathroom, a modular desk and free Wi-Fi access. Designed by the Ateliers Archange, the reception areas, the bar and the breakfast area democratise contemporary design with noble materials, warm colors, and unprecedented furniture in the economy hotels segment. They also introduce a new relaxed and warm spirit, with open and interconnected spaces. Both hotels pilots of the &#x201c;Welcome by Le Club AccorHotels&#x201d; programme Finally, both hotels are pilots of the &#x201c;Welcome by Le Club AccorHotels&#x201d; programme in Algeria and, therefore, offer guests this online check-in/fast check-out solution. Through this service, guests can check in online two days prior to their arrival. They are spared the typical, time-consuming administrative formalities, and their room is chosen and allocated in advance in accordance with the indications provided beforehand. Upon arrival the room key is ready, and the hotel staff welcomes guests in a more seamless and customised manner. Upon departure the guest is free to leave quickly. Check-out simply consists of returning the room key to indicate that the room has been vacated and an electronic invoice is emailed. Welcome by Le Club AccorHotels is part of the group's digital strategy, which aims to integrate and rethink the position of the digital space throughout the guest experience.