Situated within the Westlake View Logistics Hub off the N3 London Road offramp, it is everything a world class A grade logistics park should be &#x2013; well located, well designed and easily accessible. Speaking at the launch of Phase 1 of the park, Fortress Income Fund&#x2019;s executive director Andrew Teixeira explained that this latest facility had been designed according to the latest global best practice and incorporated top grade safety and security features and best green building practices. Fortress Income Fund &#x2013; one of the top property funds on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange with a property portfolio worth over R28,7-billion &#x2013; has strategically positioned itself as a provider of premier logistics and warehousing facilities for blue chip tenants in Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal and the Western Cape. Part of 1 million sqm of warehousing to be developed It has one of the largest logistics property development pipelines in South Africa. Westlake View forms part of the 1 million sqm of warehousing that is due to be developed over the next five years. This equates to a combined investment of approximately R8 billion. Teixeira said there had been growth in demand for warehousing in South Africa in recent years. Supply chain management trends had seen the consolidation of multiple distribution points into larger, centralised regional distribution hubs. Both the recently launched first phase of Westlake View and the second phase that is to follow facilitate this trend. In addition, this logistics park has been designed with other key trends in supply chain management in mind. Intelligently designed warehousing enables companies to weed out inefficiencies and wastage. &#x201c;We help drive down costs through technology and innovative warehouse design. We also offer facilities that are located in optimal locations that reduce transport costs and the &#x201c;cost per pallet&#x201d;. Accessibility - another priority Accessibility is another priority for Fortress. Teixeira pointed out that, in addition to being close to the N3, the logistics park also has a second entrance which would enable tenants to bypass traffic congestion when necessary. Internal infrastructure such as double carriageway access in and out of the park, as well as large yards, ensure the free flow of traffic and allows for quicker turnaround times. This minimises delays and pushes down any unnecessary costs. Teixeira explained that, from a warehouse design perspective, the most critical elements were the height and the floor. The first warehouse at Westlake View has been built to a height of 13,5m to the underside of the eaves which allows for racking up to 12 metres. This is the highest pallet position that can be accessed by standard equipment, minimising the need to use expensive, specialised equipment. Two phases Westlake View Logistics Park, which is valued at a total of R350 million, comprises two phases. The first phase - a 17,838sqm warehouse with 2,040sqm of office space and a 37-metre yard &#x2013; was completed at the end of March and is ready for occupation. A second phase comprising over 20,000sqm of warehouse space is due to start in the middle of this year and will be ready for occupation in mid-2018. Teixeira said that Fortress would continue to monitor logistics trends to ensure that all warehouse developments remain cutting edge. &#x201c;Our model of warehousing is the future of logistics. South Africa&#x2019;s rate of import is still growing and, with it an increase in the demand for warehousing facilities,&#x201d; he concluded.