"Where did the time go?" mused TMK founder Lebona Moleli. "It's still an exciting time today, just as it was 10 years ago," he continued. From small beginnings, Moleli&#x2019;s company has not only expanded its business, but has aggressively diversified its roster of clients. During the past 10 years, The Marketing Kraal, has assisted clients to create brand awareness as well as elevate their brands in the townships. &#x201c;We have also assisted some of our clients launch new products and services into the market. We have generated income for our site owners thus contributing to socio economic upliftment. We have skilled township artists and also provided employment to many artists we work with,&#x201d; said Moleli. &#x201c;We are very excited to be celebrating 10 years of successful partnership with our clients and vendors. Our clients and employee relationships are the foundation for this success and will continue to be our strong suit in the future. Without this sense of partnership, we would have never been able to reach this milestone." "The company's commitment to service, matched by its commitment to the township communities, have been at the heart of our 10 years,&#x201d; he said. He said his company, based in Midrand, has continued to move out-of-home advertising forward, embracing new technologies wherever possible in order to provide the best possible service. &#x201c;Our values and practices place us ideally to meet the demands of the modern consumer, and we will continue to grow and provide excellent service to all of our clients for future generations," he said. In addition to being honest and passionate about what they do, Moleli said they have built their success on client services, strategy and entrepreneurship talent that builds clients' brands and grows their business. &#x201c;Founded with a commitment to putting clients' interests first, this ethos has filtered down to our staff of seven," said Moleli who was a marketing executive at South African Breweries, Coca Cola, Uthingo Management and South African Airways prior to venturing on the entrepreneurship journey. Moleli said he developed the love and passion for advertising at a young age when growing up in Lesotho but was encouraged to study natural science by his teachers. In 1996, he pursued a Master of Business Administration at Wits Business School and since then became hooked to marketing. When his employer closed down in 2007, his entrepreneurial pursuit to contribute to socio-economic development and his innate creative talent and resilience drove him to start The Marketing Kraal. In today's cutthroat advertising and media industry, Moleli says his company not only knows the value of creating great advertising, but the importance of a customer-centric approach which considers all aspects of a company's business. &#x201c;TMK is committed to staying on the cutting edge of its clients' industries. Our staff is passionate about the work they render to our clients and they consistently plan and execute marketing and communication plans that deliver results." What would he be doing if he was not in advertising? "I can't think of another career I'd be lucky enough to have for 10 years. The marketplace has changed making it a more interesting and exciting challenge for those involved in marketing communications. The people who are involved in the day-to-day advertising business are some of the most talented, and imaginative individuals I have met - they make work fun," said Moleli. About the Marketing Kraal: The Marketing Kraal offers outdoor advertising, marketing planning and marketing services. The company plans to expand and venture into strategic planning, consumer insights/analytics, creative services, media planning/buying and, interactive/digital/new media. Visit www.themarketingkraal.co.za. az.oc.laarkgnitekrameht&#64;ofnI . Tel: 011 805 6538.