Key and emerging source markets were represented in buyers and travel professionals from 58 countries, including the Americas, Asia Pacific and Middle Eastern regions including countries such as United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Australia, China, India, Brazil, Canada, and Argentina. Jeann Schmulian, marketing manager of Quiver Tree Apartments, says: &#x201c;Disney World doesn't have anything on this. We had an amazing show, loved the vibe and enjoyed the positive energy from each of the buyers we met with. We see WTM Africa as a great platform to help us in growing the Quiver Tree Stellenbosch brand in the future.&#x201d; Jeann Schmulian, marketing manager of Quiver Tree Apartments, was a first-time exhibitor at WTM Africa 2017 E-tourism In addition, the exciting inclusion of the 9th E-Tourism Africa Summit at WTM Africa 2017 featured world-renowned experts on travel technology. In an overflowing venue, the E-Tourism Africa Summit demonstrated to travel trade how best to face the challenges of working in a travel market that is more dynamic and self-controlled than ever, with technology enabling clients to research, plan, and book travel in more ways and marketing increasingly relying on the way travellers create and share content. Pink travel The growing potential of pink travel, focused specifically on gay and lesbian travellers, was detailed in a session hosted by the KwaZulu-Natal Gay and Lesbian Tourism Association. This session showcased a strategy that contributes to socio-economic change, whilst opening up an extraordinary African tourism destination to a powerful global LGBT market hungry for new travel experiences. This emerging market for Africa will see even more focus at WTM Africa 2018. Once again, WTM Africa 2017 was delighted to partner with the City of Cape Town. The continued support of the city is a key factor in the success of the show, and the involvement of the City of Cape Town is a testament to the importance of WTM Africa 2017 within the tourism landscape. Lastly, revealed on the second day of WTM Africa 2017, were the winners for the auspicious African Responsible Tourism Awards. Congratulations go out to all of the deserving winners that are driving various responsible tourism initiatives in Africa. More extraordinary innovations for an even bigger and better WTM Africa 2018, as well as audited statistics and numbers around WTM Africa 2017, will be announced in coming weeks. WTM Africa 2018 will take place in Cape Town from 18 - 20 April 2018. Visit WTM Africa 2017 on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Join in the conversation online using the hashtag #WTMA17.