Formed in the early 90's, the band was maybe not one of the most prolific producers of singles (certainly by today's standards) but they definitely offered their audiences quality over quantity throughout their existence. Songs like 'Ziggy Played Bizarre' and 'Suicide Annie' rose to the top of Barney Simon's Alternative Charts. 'Book I Write' was included on a KFM cd compilation and all of this was achieved before local quotas existed on South African radio playlists. Their songs have been used in soundtracks for movies such as 'Once Upon A Roadtrip' and 'Twist'. The band also penned the theme song for TV series; 'Couch Trip' and 'Sleepy Town' was used in the TV series, 'Going Nowhere Slowly'. 'Lovesong' off their final album was listed on the 1001 South African Songs You Must Hear Before You Go Deaf. After many lineup shifts and numerous live performances around the country, The Dollyrockers disbanded in 2006, having produced 1 x ep (on vinyl only) and 3 x full studio albums. Now they are back for two performances of their best-loved classics this weekend in Cape Town in the CBD. Friday, 7 April 2017 6pm The Grand Daddy Hotel Rooftop Sunday, 9 April 2017 1pm Bar Dough / Los Muertos The band lineup features Greg Donnelly (vocals, guitar), Anthony Bull (bass), Arnold Vermaak ((drums) and Stuart Crawford-Browne (guitar). I spoke to lead vocalist Greg Donnelly prior to this weekends shows. What does music mean to you? Music has been my life, the highs, the lows, it is all encompassing. Any funny moments on stage? I've fallen offstage while executing a rockstar jump at a festival in Wilderness and landing on a broken beer bottle when nobody wanted to catch me. Your heroes? David Bowie and Muhammad Ali. It&#x2019;s your round what are you drinking? Old Harbour Beer. The song you wished you wrote? Respect - Otis Redding. What makes you stand out? My shiny head. Nicknames? The Hammer. If you were not a musician what would you do? Look after dogs. Pick five words to describe yourself? Compulsive, undecided, confused, distracted but softhearted. Five desert island discs? David Bowie - The Rise & Fall Of Ziggy Stardust Throwing Muses - The Real Ramona The Sound - Jeopardy The Pixies - Doolittle The B-52's - First Album Greatest movie ever made? Oh Brother, where art thou? Favourite fashion garment? My Nick Cave t-shirt. Give us some real proper slang and what it means. Banjaxed - broken. What is your fear? That I don't get to reconnect with family and friends that I have lost contact with. Happiness is? Often closer than you realise. On stage I tend to? Lose the plot. Wishes for 2017? That people started treating one another with more respect. Facebook: @DollyrockersSA Listen to The Dollyrockers: /thedollyrockers.bandcamp.com