 Dmitriy Shpilko via 123RFBurson-Marsteller Africa has walked away with the highest number of accolades of any agency network. Burson-Marsteller Africa is also a finalist in three categories for the EMEA SABRE Awards, the winners of which will be announced in London on 23 May 2017. The SABRE Awards, sponsored by leading industry trade publication The Holmes Report, have a 25-year heritage, with separate competitions in North America, EMEA, the Asia-Pacific, Latin America, South Asia, and now Africa. The winners from these regional competitions are eligible for the Global SABRE Awards, which recognise the best PR campaigns from more than 5,000 entries around the world. The Burson-Marsteller Africa network bagged four Gold African Sabre Awards and Blast Burson-Marsteller is a finalist in the Platinum Award for &#x2018;Best in Show&#x2019;: Eastern Africa: Gold Winner &#x2013; My #ColgateSmilefie campaign, Colgate-Palmolive with Burson-Marsteller Africa (Kenya and South Africa).Public Education: Gold Winner &#x2013; Be a Buddy not a Bully with Cartoon Network Buddy Network, Turner Broadcasting with Burson-Marsteller Africa (South Africa).Special Event: Gold Winner &#x2013; Lion Guard Return of the Roar, MultiChoice with Engage Burson-Marsteller (Kenya).Financial and Professional Services: Gold Winner &#x2013; NexGenFactor Fishing for Talent, PwC with Blast Burson-Marsteller (Mauritius).Platinum Award for Best in Show: Finalist (winner to be announced on 11 May) &#x2013; NexGenFactor Fishing for Talent, PwC with Blast Burson-Marsteller (Mauritius). Robyn de Villiers, chairman and CEO: Burson-Marsteller Africa commented, &#x201c;We are thrilled to have won four gold awards and six certificates of excellence, and to have one platinum finalist nomination. I am very proud of these world class, results-driven campaigns that have been executed by the Burson-Marsteller Africa network in partnership with our clients. &#x201c;Being recognised and awarded at the inaugural SABRE Awards Africa is an honour and reinforces the results that can be achieved when we combine world class strategic counsel with cutting edge, integrated communications. We are delighted that our work is also being recognised in the larger EMEA region, as we are finalists in three categories for the EMEA SABRE Awards. Watch this space!&#x201d; In addition to the four Gold Awards, the Burson-Marsteller Africa network was awarded six Certificates of Excellence for the following: Marketing an existing product to consumers: Creating #POWFACTOR for PPG with local talent &#x2013; Turner Broadcasting with Burson-Marsteller Africa (South Africa).Technology: Multi-Country Brand Building across Africa &#x2013; SES with Burson-Marsteller Africa (Pan-Africa).Corporate Image: Multi-Country Brand Building across Africa &#x2013; SES with Burson-Marsteller Africa (Pan-Africa).Measurement and Evaluation: Sala Puleesa Consumer Promotion &#x2013; Crown Beverages Limited (Pepsi) with Brainchild Burson-Marsteller (Uganda).Crisis Management: UEFA Champions League: Drink & Peel Promotion - Crown Beverages Limited (Pepsi) with Brainchild Burson-Marsteller (Uganda).Eastern Africa: Sala Puleesa Consumer Promotion &#x2013; Crown Beverages Limited (Pepsi) with Brainchild Burson-Marsteller (Uganda). Burson-Marsteller Africa has an unparalleled reach across Africa. The firm has branded operations in 36 countries and operations in 53 of the 55 countries, through a network which has been built up over 25+ years. It boasts over 300 consultants across Africa, who offer connectivity, local insight and market relevant strategies in each of their countries.