I headed to JC Le Roux and accompanying restaurant Le Venue in Stellenbosch last weekend to test the new range for myself. I sampled the beautifully blush coloured semi-dry Demi-Sec Ros . Though less overly sweet than previous ranges, it is still pretty fruity and juice-like. That said, it is incredibly easy drinking and went down a treat with our meal at Le Venue. I would recommend those looking for a drier finish to try the Vibrazio Sauvignon Blanc. Oyster highlights When bubbles are flowing and you spot oysters on the menu, you can&#x2019;t say no, so the starter was a no-brainer. My dining partner and I shared a platter of eight. Served with fresh lemon and three accompaniments; basil and lime pesto, an alcohol-free Bloody Mary sauce, and tomato and onion salsa, these fresh, juicy and substantial West Coast oysters were the highlight of the lunch for me. For mains I chose the honey-glazed pork belly which came with a soy, ginger and La Valle Ros reduction, pan-fried asparagus, baby onions, and an apple, cranberry and mayonnaise salad on the side. The pork was sweet and succulent and perfectly complemented by the reduction and salad. The crackling could have been crispier in certain areas, however, on the whole, this was a very satisfying dish. Alcohol-ly For dessert we shared the orange and lavender cr me br l e and white chocolate cheesecake. I found the cheesecake a tad soggy and not particularly strong in white chocolate flavour; the creamy and lavender perfumed cr me br l e definitely won the dessert round. And just when we felt we could hardly add another bite to proceedings, we were presented with JC&#x2019;s signature frozen lollies created in partnership with Las Paletas artisan lollies. I chose the Berry Blanc which is made with the Vibrazio Sauvignon Blanc, a perfect refreshing end to a pleasant day out in the winelands. The House of JC Le Roux also offers a substantial tasting room and the option of indoor and outdoor dining at La Venue on the level above the tasting room. For more info or to make a booking, go to levenue.co.za. | jcleroux.co.za