Top achiever, Gregory Thomas Hardman from St Charles CollegeThese included three Cambridge learners winning Top in the World awards for achieving the highest standard marks in the world in a single Cambridge International AS Level subject. They were Gregory Thomas Hardman from St Charles College in Language & Literature in English, Jonathan De Sousa from International School of South Africa in French Language and Connor William Dooley from St John's College in Geography. Hardman said, &#x201c;Ever since I heard about the first St Charles scholar earning Top in the World in Cambridge Mathematics, I aspired and worked hard to do the same in English. The papers were made easier by my love of the syllabus; studying English did not feel like studying at all. This necessary passion drove me to achieve my goal. If there are any current scholars with similar ambitions in English Language & Literature, all I implore you to do is appreciate that what you are reading originated from a brain no less flawed or human than your own. Merely, it was an inspired one.&#x201d; The principal of St Charles College, Allen van Blerk, said that the awards recognised the talent, dedication and commitment of both learners and staff. &#x201c;Cambridge requires that we teach for conceptual understanding and demands intellectual character from our students. It introduces students to challenging ideas that inspire thinking and result in an enjoyment of their subjects. When we succeed then we know we are as good as anyone else is in the world. Gregory&#x2019;s achievement adds to many Cambridge success stories. He is now a freshman at the Quinnipiac University in the USA studying towards a Bachelor of Arts majoring in Film, Television & Media; and English.&#x201d; Students were also recognised in other award categories: Top in Country (learners who have gained the highest standard mark in South Africa for a single subject) High Achievement (awarded to learners who achieved outstanding results in subjects that are not so widely taken in the country) Best Across (awarded to learners who achieved the highest cumulative total standard marks across a number of subjects).</li></li>The Outstanding Cambridge Learner Awards programme celebrates the success of learners taking its examinations in over 40 countries around the world. Juan Visser, Regional Director, Cambridge International Examinations, sub-Saharan Africa says, &#x201c;We are very proud of the performance of our learners this year, many of whom will soon face the new and exciting challenge of university. Our programmes help learners reach their potential and become confident, responsible, reflective, innovative and engaged. These students have a bright future ahead of them and I wish them every success.&#x201d; For more information, go to www.cie.org.uk.