Left-right: Given Mkhari, Bob Mabena, Andile KhumaloIn his new role at MSG Afrika, Mabena will oversee talent and content output in the four group radio stations, namely Limpopo&#x2019;s Hottest Frequency, Capricorn FM, Gauteng-based talk radio station, Power 98.7, and soon to be launched Rhythm FM and Beat FM in the Eastern Cape and Free State, respectively. Mabena will also support individual station managers in deriving commercial value for their clients. His impressive radio management journey started in 1996 as a programs manager at Primedia-owned Highveld Stereo (94.7). In 1999, he joined Kaya FM as breakfast show host and programmes manager and later station manager. Mabena returned to Primedia as group business development manager for two-and-a-half years. He later moved on to the SABC as executive manager: Commercial Radio is responsible for Metro FM, 5FM and Good Hope FM. On his appointment at MSG Afrika, Mabena said, &#x201c;I am looking forward to working with entrepreneurs who are committed to the radio medium and who understand its power in shaping the social and business landscape of our country. I have lived radio throughout my career and believe my new role will allow me to apply my extensive broadcast experience in the boardroom." According to MSG Afrika group chairman Given Mkhari, the appointment of Mabena will further deepen the group&#x2019;s creative and operational capacity. He said, &#x201c;A fast-growing company like ours requires credible and knowledgeable professionals like Bob who can guide our talent across the markets that we operate in. I cannot think of a better person who has inspired so many practitioners and who holds such a wealth of industry experience. We are happy that Bob is now an MSG man." Mabena started his radio career in 1989 at Radio Bop. After spending three years at Radio Bop, he was recruited by the founding station manager of Radio Metro, Mr Koos Radebe. Mabena&#x2019;s stay at Radio Metro brought with it more national exposure in the form of a variety of TV shows, including Pick a Tune and Studio Mix, to mention but a few. While at Radio Metro, Mabena raced professionally in the Group N series for Nissan South Africa. Mabena continues to present his breakfast show, 180 with Bob, on Kaya FM until the end of April 2017. About MSG Afrika Broadcasting: MSG Afrika Broadcasting is a broadcasting subsidiary of media and communications company MSG Afrika Group. The broadcasting division is the operator and license holder of four commercial radio stations: Power 98.7, Capricorn FM, Rhythm FM and Beat FM.