Donald GunnThis year&#x2019;s winning campaign goes to Nivea Doll, best agency to Publicis Conseil Paris, best network to Publicis Worldwide and best advertiser to France 5. In 2016, 702 campaigns, produced by 461 agencies for 608 advertisers from 71 countries, were evaluated for this latest Good Report. The ranking is created by combining the industry's recognition with the performance measured by The Gunn Report, as well as the promotional effort behind the campaigns and the public&#x2019;s recognition from public votes organised by ACT Responsible. There are no complicated criteria or categories, just great work for Good. The Good Report 2016 is made-up of 40 campaigns, of which 24 are for NGOs, institutions and foundations and 16 are for commercial corporations. The top 25 agencies are made up of four independents and 21 networked agencies. In the top 20 networks list, there are 3 independent networks and 17 networks owned by holding companies and the top 10 advertisers include six NGOs/institutions and four for-profit companies. Most successful campaigns promoting good causes 2016Nivea Doll, FCB Brasil, S o Paulo - NiveaPriceless Traps, Geometry Global, Bogota - Ministry of Environment and SustainabilityThis Girl Can, FCB Inferno, London - Sport EnglandPrint For Help, FCB Brasil, S o Paulo - Hewlett-Packard BrasilOne Shot Is Enough, Prolam Y&R, Santiago - UnicefMost successful Agencies promoting good causes 2016Publicis Conseil, Paris, FranceFCB Brasil, S o Paulo, BrazilFCB Inferno, London, United KingdomForsman & Bodenfors, G teborg, SwedenColenso BBDO Auckland, New ZealandMost successful networks promoting good causes 2016Publicis WorldwideFCB WorldwideBBDO WorldwideGrey Global GroupYoung & Rubicam GroupMost successful advertisers promoting good causes 2016France 5Nivea BrasilUnicef ChileInnocence in Danger, GermanyAmnesty International Brussels Act Responsible recognises better side of advertising Act Responsible considers that advertising recognition is confined too often to its commercial side and that the other part of its role, such as informing, raising awareness and educating, is often forgotten. For 16 years, it has collected the best ads promoting sustainability and social responsibility in order to highlight the use of creativity to raise awareness of the world's major issues. Still, hardly any specific recognition is offered to agencies that give time and talent to support the communication of public interest causes. Nonetheless, the commitment of communication professionals to these causes is fundamental; good causes need campaigns to create awareness of their existence. Act Responsible has created &#x2018;The Good Report&#x2019;, in collaboration with The Gunn Report, to celebrate the work and dedication that thousands of agencies are making to support these major causes, in order to motivate and inspire creativity further, as well as the continued production of new campaigns. &#x201c;With The Good Report, ACT Responsible continues its mission of promoting, inspiring and federating the communications industry for the greater good. We believe advertising has a major role in educating and promoting good to help make the world a better place and we are proud the celebrate this work every year. Producing The Good Report with the collaboration of The Gunn Report Team is a great privilege,&#x201d; says Herv de Clerck, ACT Responsible Dream Leader. &#x201c;The Act Responsible Expo is one of the must see exhibitions at Cannes Lions each year. It honours the valuable job our industry does, throughout the year in countries all round the world, in multiplying the impact and effectiveness of communications for good causes. The Good Report adds a commendable extra dimension to their mission and we are proud to be a part of it,&#x201d; says Donald Gunn, founder of The Gunn Report and ACT'ive Partner. To see The Good Report 2016 in full, go to act-responsible.org/the-good-report.