iambassador founder and publisher of Velvet Escape blog Keith Jenkins spoke how best to navigate the &#x201c;Wild West&#x201d; of the travel blogging world on day one of the 2017 World Travel Market Africa. Jenkins did this by pointing out new global developments and trends in the travel blogging sphere. Image 123rf Nine trends shaping the blogging world: Influencer networks Companies such as iambassador are creating a network and database of bloggers and influencers for marketing campaigns and promotions. There is more deliberate collaboration between bloggers, and bloggers and brands. Blogging ethics Bloggers are respecting their readers and the integrity of their blogs and usually only using paid-for content that makes sense for their brand. They are also being more transparent when posts are sponsored. Excited to hear all about #travelblogging with Kieth Jenkins @velvetescape at #WTMA17 #WTMA2017 pic.twitter.com/xQ9TrwSOI4&#x2014; Bizcom Tourism (@Biz_Tourism) April 19, 2017 Conceptualised campaigns With travel promotions such as #Blogville and #Stellenblog, we are seeing much better conceptualised campaigns that host bloggers and influencers and allow them to share their experiences of cities or events through well planned itineraries. Product creation Bloggers are creating their own unique products from fashion items to fridge magnets and marketing and selling them through their blogs. Affiliate kings Bloggers are placing a lot more affiliate links in their blog posts and utilising affiliate marketing for income. Print Strangely enough, many bloggers are turning to print to help spread their content, creating travel guide books like the Solo Traveller Handbook. "Stay focused. Things change. Directions change. Keep your brand focus the same." - @velvetescape #WTMA17 @WTM_Africa pic.twitter.com/T2OQBuHgNa&#x2014; The Social Needia (@thesocialneedia) April 19, 2017 Broadcasting Many bloggers, not shy in front of a camera, are taking part in or creating TV shows, radio shows and podcasts. Bricks and mortar Some bloggers are even creating their own hostels or hotels such as travel blogger Nomadic Matt who opened his own hostel the HK Austen in Texas. New tech Bloggers are also getting a lot more tech savvy when it comes to using technology such as drones, virtual reality and augmented reality. www.iambassador.net velvetescape.com africa.wtm.com