The fully catered-for affair includes golf (on both championship courses at Sun City), safaris, soirees, pool parties, pamper sessions and more, culminating in an extravagant gala dinner hosted under a canopy of African stars. Each of the &#x2018;experiences&#x2019; is underpinned by a sumptuous array of gourmet fare and complimentary beverages that will grab the attention of even the most jaded of palates. But even more illuminating, are the music artists and performers who will provide the weekend's entertainment. Khalid Abdulla, acting CEO of espAfrika, gives an overview saying: &#x201c;Having identified a gap in the market for an experience that can appeal to both high net worth individuals and corporates looking to entertain their special clients, and one that can deliver on this sector&#x2019;s high expectations, we tested the market reaction in 2016.&#x201d; &#x201c;We were extremely pleased with the result, as were our guests, many of whom pledged their support for the 2017 event as they were departing. The benchmark was set high in 2016, and the creative team have spent the past few months evolving the concept and developing the offering for this coming iteration. From what I have seen, I believe that it will be even more spectacular and I congratulate them on their ingenuity.&#x201d; One of the outstanding aspects of the Royal Escape Experience (and there are many) is its all-inclusive budget. Guests are not billed on an ongoing basis, as the ticket price includes absolutely everything, something that resonated with the majority of guests who were asked in a post-event engagement. This is what the world&#x2019;s most exclusive establishments have realised too, understanding how five-star service should be unobtrusive and place the guest and their needs at the heart of their escape. Speaking of leisure, while many of the activities on this weekend are organised, the emphasis on this getaway from the mundane and the stress of current working environments, is all about timeout and relaxation. Within the sanctuary of the Lost Palace and the surrounds, guests have the freedom to decide what they want to do and when. Royal Escape guests are encouraged to kick off their shoes, suspend the need to answer emails on their mobiles, play, have fun and just enjoy the surroundings and all that comes with indulging in the Royal Escape Experience.