Desmond O'Connor Tell us about The Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence Cape Town Based in the architecturally award-winning building situated on the corner of Riebeeck and Long on Cape Town&#x2019;s foreshore, the five-star hotel features designs that range from historic to ultra-modern, and is within walking distance of all the city&#x2019;s main tourist attractions, as well as a kilometre from the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) - one of only two five-star hotels in the precinct. The hotel is also the Mother City&#x2019;s highest residential building and, with a total of 214 luxuriously appointed hotel rooms, will form a focal point in the city&#x2019;s elegant and sophisticated skyline. What makes The Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence Cape Town special? How does the hotel plan to differentiate itself from competitors in the city? A truly great hotel expresses a view of the history and heritage of its location, and the Radisson Blu&#x2019;s architecture does just this, conveying a strong historical story filtering through to each room. The art and classic d cor of the hotel plays a major role in the theme of the Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence Cape Town and lends itself to a classic and elegant approach rather that the current trend of being contemporary and leaning towards a &#x201c;trendy&#x201d; look and feel. It all flows hand in hand with the Art Deco architecture to the interior design elements that have the same overtones. We will differentiate ourselves by focussing all our energies on guests&#x2019; needs and our five-star service philosophy, a trend that has taken a back seat in an era where the focus has been placed on financial results. Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence Cape Town Why open a five-star luxury hotel in Cape Town? Both hotel occupancy rates and visitor numbers are on the rise in South Africa, and we are capitalising on this growing demand by launching a world-class hotel in the heart of Cape Town. With Cape Town recording year-on-year increases in tourist arrivals and cementing its place as one of the world&#x2019;s leading conferencing and exhibition capitals, the hotel is set to take advantage of the influx of corporate and leisure travellers. Many of these travellers are return visitors seeking a superlative experience, which creates the perfect market for which a luxury hotel, such as the Radisson Blu Hotel & Residences, can cater to. Geared towards the modern business traveler, Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence Cape Town offers guests access to a state-of-the-art executive business lounge, as well as a range of modern meeting and conference rooms, all featuring the latest technology and amenities. Tell us about the architecture and design of the Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence and what kind of luxuries guests can look forward to? The iconic Art Deco design of the building pays homage to Old Mutual Heights building in Adderley Street which was inspired by the same design team. A tribute to the Adderley Street building is a mural in the Stratus Room, the main dining area of the hotel. This same design ethos has been applied in the public areas and to an extent in the bedrooms. In conjunction with this design direction, inspiration was also drawn from the natural elements of the city, water, mist, clouds, etc. The design and d cor of the rooms thus create a cocoon and also instills a welcoming calm to the traveller, something that is not common in hotels around the world today. It creates a sense of serenity. Lobby of Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence Cape Town Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence is set to open its doors in April 2017. Are you ready? Have you had any interest ahead of the opening? The hotel is ready to accept its first guests and will be offering a style and service ethos that harks back to an elegant era of travel. An understated level of sophistication will be on offer without losing focus on the requirements of the modern traveller. I have always had a keen interest in this project due to the iconic nature of the building as well as the complexity of the development. It is incredible to imagine that this was once one of the most sought after office complexes in the city and now it is one of the most iconic mixed-use hotel and residential offerings in the city. And to top it off, it is situated in the most exciting precinct in the city when it comes to development. What are your wishes for Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence in its first year? We wish to ensure that our guests&#x2019; comfort is our number one priority, and we look forward to welcoming them to Cape Town&#x2019;s newest and most contemporary hotel property. That this hotel becomes a beacon for the discerning traveller into the City of Cape Town, and a residence of choice to regular travellers, offering a level of service end sophistication from a bygone era.