Launched at the end of March &#x2013; on International Women&#x2019;s Day to be exact, as the vehicle is primarily targeted at female drivers &#x2013; the minute-long ad is racking up views with the hashtag trending on social media. Most of that is based on the local launch event, which took place at Constitution Hill&#x2019;s Women&#x2019;s Jail as part of an evening of inspiration and empowerment. The ad is embedded below, in case you&#x2019;ve not yet seen it: It&#x2019;s empowering and leading many to question whether it&#x2019;s simply a commercial for the new Hyundai model or a celebration of women and everything they've achieved. Particularly when you factor in the fact that it had an all-female creative team at its helm: Joe Public creative group head Natalie Walker and copywriter Marjolein Rossouw. Oscar Makola, marketing director of Hyundai South Africa, clarifies that the answer is "yes to all of the above". Hyundai is specifically partnering with women who have the mindset to light the way for other women as they typically have a related cause that empowers or enables other women, and Hyundai intends to help them further their cause. The message of &#x2018;female power&#x2019; is a strong one, with the ad voice-over also that of powerful local actress, feminist poet and TV personality Lebo Mashile &#x2013; not your typical rugged male baritone. Makola said this acknowledges that women have it much harder than men, and that Hyundai celebrates their achievements and victories in spite of the odds being stacked against them. Hyundai Creta brand ambassadors Ayanda-Allie Paine and Leanne Dlamini with Hyundai South Africa marketing director, Oscar Makola. Hyundai Creta Light the Way influencers Ayanda-Allie Paine and Leanne Dlamini share why this brand messaging resonates strongly with them&#x2026; What appealed to you about the Hyundai Creta Light the Way campaign? Paine: The sincerity of the organisers drew me to the Hyundai Light the Way campaign. I got a sense that the campaign organisers wanted authenticity out of the partnership and wanted to partner with me in making a real, meaningful, tangible and sustainable difference in the lives of young people. Dlamini: Yes, it was aimed at celebrating, uplifting and supporting women, which is everything I stand for. Talk us through your own struggle to balance the various roles females are expected to pursue in a world driven by men. Paine: Women are expected to be all things to all men, at all times! Mother, boss, provider, community builder, friend, sister, daughter, teacher, partner&#x2026; It&#x2019;s humanly impossible to fulfil all these roles without a solid support structure. If you&#x2019;re juggling too many balls, one will fall and your health, confidence and general wellbeing may tumble down along with it. While I am aware that &#x2018;I am the master of my fate, the captain of my soul&#x2019; I am not afraid to call for backup, to outsource and delegate! More often than not, it is other women who fuel the fire that helps me light my way. My housekeeper helps me to maintain a clean and tranquil environment at home, my sister assists me by fetching my boys from school, and my girlfriends lift my spirits when I need to recharge. It is other women who are the wind beneath my wings, helping me soar to higher heights and navigate the rough terrain in a male-dominated landscape. I am because they are! Dlamini: Balancing all my roles is like a juggling act most of the time because, like many other women, I'm trying to do it all at once and excel in all my roles, being wife, mother, sister, friend, singer and business woman. It is challenging at times, but that's what makes us women special; we're resilient, built to last, warriors. How important is it to have strong female influencers like yourselves &#x2018;drive&#x2019; the brand&#x2019;s dialogue? Paine: It is crucial because in this day and age there are still some sectors of our society that refuse to recognise the value of women. Women must be supported and celebrated for their contribution to society. We get a raw deal economically, as we are mostly paid less than our male counterparts for the same work; socially, as we often carry the burden of ensuring that the family and society function; and religiously, as some institutions believe that we must be seen and not heard; and in so many other ways. Dlamini: It is extremely important because women need real women with relatable stories that they can connect with; women who are in line with the vision of the brand and vice versa. When a partnership is not authentic, people can tell. That&#x2019;s for sure. What do you admire most about your fellow influencers and how does this make the campaign that much more authentic? Paine: What I love about my fellow women is their uniqueness! Ours is a dynamic group of powerful women of all ages, varied races and different interests. Though our strengths vary, they are strengths nonetheless. There is no hierarchy of which work is better than the other. It is not just about making inroads in sports, arts, innovation or development, it is about changing mindsets, building our country and making a difference wherever we are! Our light as women is needed in every sphere of society and by lighting the way, we inspire others to do the same. Dlamini: I love how incredibly powerful each of them are in their own right; how selfless they are in following through with their passions and living their best lives. These women are iconic and it is such an incredible honor for me to stand beside them. You have no idea. That honour is set to continue as Hyundai hopes the ad continues to create pertinent conversations and awareness of issues surrounding global gender inequality. Click here for more on the new commercial by Joe Public and here for our review of how the Creta is set to rattle opposition cages. You can also follow the #CretaLightTheWay hashtag or @HyundaiSA on Twitter, Hyundai South Africa on Facebook and Hyundai_SA on Instagram for more.