Gra a Machel The forum aims to enable companies, government, civil society organisations, parastatals and individuals to better help citizens reach their full potential. Topics to be covered include; national and global trends in corporate philanthropy, funding social justice, managing and meeting community expectations, information and communications technology for development and in education, social media for social impact, and fundraising tips from corporate donors. A lineup of more than 50 speakers includes:Dr Adebayo Fayoyin, regional advocacy, media and communications adviser at the United Nations,&nbsp;Allon Raiz, founder and CEO of Raizcorp business incubator,Antoinia Norman, CEO of the Branson Centre of Entrepreneurship,Mbongiseni Buthelezi, research manager, Public Affairs Research Institute,Thabang Chiloane, executive head, Nedbank Group Public Affairs,Steph Prinsloo, programme manager, Eskom Development Foundation, andAndy Hadfield, CEO of forgood &ndash; a social impact start-up that connects people to causes. L-R: Dr Adebayo Fayoyin, Nelly Mofokeng, and Allon Raiz South African corporate social investment (CSI) spend was R8.6bn in 2015/16, says Nick Rockey, MD of Trialogue. Nearly half (48%) of this CSI spend was directed to the education sector, followed by social and community development (15%), and health (9%). The majority of leading corporations have three or more flagship projects, which they have supported for more than three years. &ldquo;While our challenges in South Africa are undeniable, companies have been consistent in their effort to alleviate social problems and make a difference,&rdquo; says Rockey. Driving social change Leading participants in this field are showing that by leveraging company resources and capability, innovating and driving social change, the impact achieved can be far greater than the magnitude of the contribution. It is these practices that this conference aims to expose, he says. &ldquo;We call on companies, non-profit organisations (NPOs), government, academia and media to get together and share insights, case studies and lessons. The conference will be a timely opportunity to engage with social entrepreneurs, resource mobilisers, government, academics and leaders of some of South Africa&rsquo;s most prominent foundations.&rdquo; For more info, and to register, go to www.trialogue.co.za.