Carrie Wicks Said Carrie Wicks, CEO of Leeu Collection, &#x201c;The purchase of a London property is a very exciting development for Leeu Collection, as it marks the first acquisition for the group in a major city, but it will certainly not be the last. Leeu Collection continues to seek hotel opportunities in key locations around the world that reflect the Leeu ethos of creating unrivalled escapes for discerning guests&#x201d;. The Leeu Collection The Leeu Collection (in Sanskrit Singh means lion, which is leeu in Afrikaans) comprises three five-star boutique properties in South Africa&#x2019;s scenic winelands, Leeu Estates; a 17-room country house retreat and boutique winery in the Franschhoek valley, Leeu House; a 12-room hotel in the heart of Franschhoek village; and Le Quartier Fran ais, a romantic 21-room hotel and three-bedroom LQF Villa, also located in the village. Extending beyond the offering of luxury accommodation, Analjit Singh is a partner in award-winning Mullineux & Leeu Family Wines. Complementing the Leeu Collection, an exotic culinary hub across the road from Leeu House, Heritage Square, is home to Marigold, Franschhoek&#x2019;s first authentic Indian restaurant. Adjacent to Leeu House, Tuk Tuk, a craft beer microbrewery in partnership with the award-winning Cape Brewing Company team, serves bespoke brews and Mexican-inspired food. Everard Read Franschhoek in partnership with the Leeu Collection is a considered space showing modern and contemporary artworks by southern African artists. The gallery includes a sculpture garden, interspersed with herbs and vegetables, and is located adjacent to Le Quartier Fran ais. Leeu Collection expands internationally with Linthwaite HouseLeeu Collection has acquired the acclaimed Lake District hotel, Linthwaite House in the United Kingdom, their first property outside of South Africa...26 Apr 2016 The Leeu Collection&#x2019;s first addition outside of South Africa was Linthwaite House, a country retreat overlooking Lake Windermere in England&#x2019;s scenic Lake District. This boutique hotel is a celebrated 30-room four AA Red Star hotel situated in landscaped gardens and woodland grounds. The second was Leeu Villa Querce in Florence, Italy, a 70-plus room luxury hotel and gardens set to open in 2021.