Startupbootcamp team Zachariah George, Paul Nel, and Philip KiracofeThis global industry-focused accelerator group has 18 programmes across 13 countries and has seen value in now setting up a footprint in Africa. Opportunity to build the African tech ecosystem The call for applications is focused on sourcing scalable technology solutions applicable to diversified financial services and related industries. The aim is to grow disruptive startups and connect them with dynamic corporates, providing both with an opportunity to collaborate and build the African tech ecosystem. The launch of this first Startupbootcamp Cape Town programme in Africa comes after a trend analysis that found 161 applications to the global programme to have originated from African teams in 2016. Additionally, there were five South African FastTracks in 2015 and three in 2016. To date, Startupbootcamp has invested in eight teams from Africa in total, three of which are in the current InsurTech cohort. With this programme, the organisation brings together top startups from around the world, a mentor network of renowned industry experts and entrepreneurs, and major players in banking, insurance, consultancy, leasing and technology as founding partners. Benefits From a pool of hundreds of applications, Startupbootcamp Cape Town will select the 10 most promising teams, and will provide each team with &#x20ac;15,000, 100+ highly engaged mentors from the fintech, insurtech and regtech industries, free office space, a convertible note, access to funding, and a network of industry partners, investors, and venture capital firms. The programme will kick off in September 2017. Philip Kiracofe, co-MD of Startupbootcamp Cape Town says: &#x201c;The African tech and digital landscape is growing exponentially, and we firmly believe that the future of innovation will come from Africa. Cape Town is one of the most vibrant and creative hubs on the continent and we are both excited and humbled to contribute by attracting global expertise here. &#x201c; To kick off, startups from all over the world are invited to present their ideas to the Startupbootcamp team at a series of &#x2018;FastTrack&#x2019; days between May and July 2017. These FastTracks are being held globally in cities including Accra, Amsterdam, Cairo, Cape Town, Doha, Dubai, Johannesburg, Kampala, Lagos, London, Nairobi, Paris, and Tel Aviv. Interested startups can apply online. Applications are open until 14 July 2017. BREAKING: Barclays Accelerator reveals 2017 Africa programme participantsLast night, Thursday, 20 April 2017, saw the announcement of the top 10 companies selected for the Barclays Accelerator 2017 Africa programme...3 days ago