 HONGQI ZHANG via 123RFLaunched in partnership with VC4A, Telesom and Oxfam, as part of the Work in Progress! project, Innovate Accelerator saw over 180 applications submitted for last year&#x2019;s inaugural cohort. This year the accelerator has promised to be bigger and better with the programme extended to 12 weeks and the top three start-ups from the 2017 cohort receiving up to $15,000 in investment from Innovate Ventures Fund. Accelerator Applications will be accepted online from start-ups based in Somaliland or Somalia and founded by entrepreneurs under the age of 35. Initially, 12 to 15 start-ups will be selected for a one week long bootcamp based on the potential of the team, the scalability and commercial viability of the product or service espoused, and the traction attained to-date. From these start-ups 10 will be selected for the Innovate Accelerator programme and will receive mentoring and training on how to build a commercially viable and scalable technology business. The start-ups will also receive introductions to leading companies and investors in the Somali region. Demo day The accelerator programme will culminate in a Demo Day where last year&#x2019;s graduates have received investment and clients. The top three start-ups will receive a total of $15,000 in equity investment from the Innovate Ventures Fund. &#x201c;Building on our previous success in supporting businesses in Somaliland and Somalia, this accelerator programme is intended to help further grow the tech scene and provide start-ups the mentoring and investment they need.&#x201d;, says Dr Abdigani Diriye, director of Innovate Ventures. Alina Vinogradova, head of programs and partnerships at VC4A, adds: &#x201c;A program like this was much needed to jump start local tech start-up scene and to put Somaliland on the map as a possible destination for angel investment. Relatively small seed rounds go a long way here &#x2013; we hope for Somali diaspora to step in and close the funding gap for entrepreneurial youths.&#x201d; Applications The Innovate Accelerator has opened applications and will close on 30 June 2017. The next two months will see workshops and info sessions being run for start-ups, investors and potential applicants held jointly by VC4A and Innovate Ventures as part of their roadshow in Somaliland. Start-ups can apply for the Innovate Accelerator programme via the online application form here.