PH Hatfield poolProtea Hotel by Marriott Pretoria Hatfield, which will soon embark on a major construction project set to increase the hotel&#x2019;s number of rooms and facilities. Meeting Pretoria's gowing demand for accommodation Danny Bryer, the director: marketing, sales and revenue management for Protea Hotels by Marriott says: &#x201c;Pretoria, as a node, continues to experience significant growth and demand for accommodation on the back of new commercial developments that have come on stream year on year. As a result, Protea Hotels by Marriott&#x2019;s presence in this node has increased with new developments such as the Protea Hotel Fire & Ice! by Marriott Menlyn and a new build which is currently underway in Centurion. Hatfield is no different, as it has always been a sought-after suburb for both business and residential reasons, attracting many of the embassies based in Pretoria. Its proximity to the University of Pretoria, Loftus Versfeld Rugby Stadium, and the city centre, with its many government buildings, makes it an appealing location for travellers coming to Pretoria for both business and leisure. More recently, it has also become home to some of the top restaurants in the city, and so the area caters to the trendy and the upmarket guest.&#x201d; Tony Petricevic, director of Bluecor Trading, the owners of the property, explains that this is a major project since the hotel will add an additional 95 bedrooms to give it a total of 214 rooms, a new restaurant, bar and additional conference and meeting rooms. &#x201c;This project supports our investment strategy to improve the physical property in order to continue to meet market needs whilst supporting the hotel&#x2019;s business strategy of increasing market share from key market segments, which is why we have committed a substantial investment &#x2013; to the tune of approximately R120 million &#x2013; to this initiative.&#x201d; Work on the building project will start in May 2017. The first phase is geared for completion in November this year, after which the second phase of the work will commence. The projected completion date for all the work is May 2018.