Amber Finlay&#x201c;The New (category) was created for work that pushed the boundaries. It is a medium that is ever-changing to reflect the evolution of our industry and to honour those that create outside the box and Amber&#x2019;s diverse background, as agency and client, creative, media and digital, makes her a great fit to chair this jury,&#x201d; stated Barbara Levy, the president of the London International Awards (LIA). GLOBAL The New' category at LIA reshapes itselfAlmost a decade ago, the London International Awards (LIAs) collaborated with Faris Yakob, author of Paid attention: Innovative advertising for a digital world, to conceptualise the New category to recognise work that sat outside traditional media definitions...20 Apr 2017 At Converse, Finlay gets to put her obsession with fashion and culture to use every day, overseeing the development of creative content that reflects the spirit of youth that drives the brand. Before taking her role there, Finlay spent her career in roles spanning brand, digital and communications strategy at agencies such as Arnold Worldwide, Naked Communications, Deep Focus, McGarry Bowen and DDB. With a passion for technology and how it shapes culture and people, she has worked on projects for brands including Google, HBO, Johnson & Johnson, Jack Daniel&#x2019;s and Progressive Insurance. New categories &#x201c;I'm honoured to chair the 2017 jury for LIA&#x2019;s competition for The New. If you buy into Arthur C Clarke's thought that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic, then there is nothing more exciting than creative work that fits into none of the existing boxes. I'm ready to see some magic,&#x201d; comments Finlay. This year LIA has made some significant changes to The New, adding new categories to reflect and champion evolution in the industry. Judging will take place at Encore Las Vegas from 29 September to 7 October 2017. The initial entry deadline is 9 June 2017, For more information, click here.