Businesses use them to either create new lead-generation avenues, reward employees and business partners for their hard work, or boost productivity through team-building exercises &#x2013; which in turn promotes togetherness and teamwork in the company. It&#x2019;s obvious corporate events are pretty much big deals in the business world. Little wonder we have a sizeable amount of them each passing year. Over time, however, there has been an evolution of corporate events. The audience now demands more. And why not? With technology being more sophisticated today, more is expected. Retaining an audience&#x2019;s attention is now one of the biggest challenges that organisers of corporate events face. With this challenge in mind, here are three creative ways you can leave your attendees remembering, for months and years, the remarkable corporate event that you put together. 1. Dump the bus/cab and get the limo Sounds ridiculous for something as serious as a corporate event, right? Probably. But then, we're looking at remarkable ways. So, hire a limousine. Getting a limousine bus to convey your guests or attendees to and from the venue of the event will leave an indelible mark on them. It is the finest method to deal with your visitors and give them that beautiful experience. Give it a shot and hear people talk about your event for years. 2. Add some interactive entertainment A badly-organised corporate event can cost you a lot. Imagine trying to launch a product to a bored group of attendees at your company's corporate event. Your sales manager might not be smiling at the end of the day. To avoid this, there are several ways you can liven up your event, one of which is throwing some entertainment in the mix. This will certainly bring life to your event and provide guests with a nice spectacle, one they will keep talking about for a long time. Comedians and comp res are also a great way to get your message across without boring people out. With a few jokes here and there, they can help make the event a remarkable one. There are tons of entertainment options. You just have to be creative. 3. Let the food be amazing Great food makes people remember your event. Most of them won't tell you, but the food is one part of the event they're looking forward to. By serving them great and healthy food, it shows that you care. Wow your guests with the food. Map out food stations in/around the event venue that will allow guests to serve themselves, mix their own cocktail or assemble their own pie, build their own pizza, etc. Your attendees will most definitely appreciate all the effort put in and your event will remain on their lips, for a long time. In all, remember to be flexible in your approaches. Use varying patterns with each event. This will help make each corporate event a uniquely remarkable one, and not just almost the same style every single time.