As a young man I used to read Kerouac on the Greyhound bus between Durban and Johannesburg in South Africa trying to make being broke a romantic pursuit. Today, I was visiting Beatnik Central. We stumbled onto the City Lights Bookstore where Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and all the others had spent a lot of time. It is a strange feeling when you see something for real that&#x2019;s been in your head for years. There are little gems you find in reality. Hidden details that fill in gaps or give you new insight into the stories you have read. Direct experience. There was a time where we got our inspiration from going out there and finding stories, ideas and things. Today, of course those things come to us. They are piped in. The information comes to us on a screen but I am not sure the experience does. And the reason that is important is that information needs experience to become a story. Experience interprets information. Experience transforms information. We walked down the road and we found the American Zoetrope Building. The Godfather and Apocalypse Now were edited there. I looked at the building with its bright green facade created by time. I saw a younger George Lucas drinking coffee on the street and Francis Ford Coppola with a half-smoked cigar in his mouth looking out of one of the windows with a very harassed editor behind him drowning in the pieces of Apocalypse Now still to be edited. The place and the building had given me a feeling. A feeling I would not have had if I had just Googled the address. A feeling and a story that information alone would not have supplied. The direct experience of things, it would seem, has a strange side-effect: Inspiration. Inspiration was something I had experienced the day before. Keith Reinhard is chairman emeritus of DDB and has been in advertising for six decades. Let&#x2019;s just say he has forgotten stuff you will never know. He had been kind enough to come and speak to a few of us about advertising and his journey through it. There was a joy in his stories and I found his talk really inspirational. And, I believe I felt the way I did because I was in the same room as him. If I had watched him on a screen I would not have experienced his gentle warmth, intelligence and sense of humour. I got a sense of him as a person and that made what he said better. Inspiration and direct experience of life are vital ingredients for creativity. We need both to do anything interesting. Advertising is taking these qualities for granted. Without them, you will reach the sea of sameness very quickly. Fortunately, over a two-day period I was given two very large doses to point me in the right direction. First from a great man who had better stories than me. Second from a great place that had better stories than me. And now, their stories have become my story. The lesson I learned from San Francisco and Keith Reinhard is that being there is everything. It is how inspiration happens. That&#x2019;s how stories begin. The postcard is never the place. It&#x2019;s a lesson our business should never forget. &#x201c;Experience is simply the name we give our mistakes.&#x201d; &#x2013; Oscar Wilde. &#x201c;Maybe that&#x2019;s what life is&#x2026; a wink of the eye and winking stars.&#x201d; &#x2013; Jack Kerouac.