The Crazy Store MD, Kevin Lennett.The group has shown high growth since its first outlet (then known as the R10 Store) opened in Edenvale, Johannesburg in 1995. By 2011, the group had opened its 200th store in Cape Town and further growth was underpinned by its smaller express store concept, launched in October 2013 at the Howard Centre in Pinelands, Cape Town. Its reach includes 11 stores in Namibia, opening its first Crazy Store in Windhoek in 2006. African expansion &#x201c;As far as Africa is concerned, we are happy with our footprint in Namibia and are now looking forward to trading in Botswana,&#x201d; says MD, Kevin Lennett. &#x201c;Our first Botswana outlet will open mid-May in the upmarket, expanding Gaborone suburb of Phakalane, in the Mowana Park Shopping Centre. Many established local and expatriate families live in the area, known for its luxury homes, golf estate and private schools.&#x201d; &#x201c;Mowana Park has recently been extended and revamped to a high standard. It offers an upmarket food store, large supermarket, restaurants and coffee shop. We are opening a medium-sized Crazy Store to our latest finish and merchandise specifications, matching the market potential.&#x201d; The group&#x2019;s growth is in stark contrast to the subdued South African economic climate, with cash-strapped consumers facing constraints on their disposable incomes. Lennett says this challenging environment has benefitted the brand, whose success he attributes to attaining the ideal balance between quality and price. &#x201c;Continuing tough economic times have helped, rather than hurt, our growth. Our buyers source product ranges carefully, with our target market in mind. They have been focused on stocking value-for-money goods. The range consists of over 4,000 product lines, including toys, games and sports goods, consumables, garden and pet products. Trading densities are comparable with major national retailers. With proven customer (and landlord) enthusiasm, and with a committed and experienced team from top to bottom, we are proud to be a trusted and loved South African brand,&#x201d; concludes Lennett. The group expects to open an additional 20 stores by end 2017.