 Property Buyer Show websiteFollowing its success, Spintelligent, Clarion Events have announced they will be hosting a Property Buyer Show in October in Gauteng and have confirmed that they will have shows in Cape Town, Johannesburg and Durban next year. &#x201c;It was encouraging to see intent to purchase and offers taking place on the exhibition floor over the weekend,&#x201d; says Richard Stubbs, event director at Spintelligent, Clarion Events. &#x201c;One of the highlights of the show for me was the launch and sell-out of Phase 1 sales of a new development in Paarl. This affirms that the event model works and is a win-win for buyers and sellers.&#x201d; The show promoted the Western Cape Property market to local and intra-provincial buyer audiences, with locals and visitors from Gauteng, Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. Visitors were able to interact with regional and local brands from Cape Town CBD, Atlantic Seaboard, Southern Suburbs, Northern Suburbs, West Coast, Cape Winelands and the Overberg, as well as having access to banks and bond originators, estate agents, developers, conveyancing lawyers and service providers, such as home inspection and insurance companies. &#x201c;The theatre content was well received and provided much value for visitors. The Property Investor Theatre, in partnership with Pam Golding Properties, was particularly popular with only standing room available at times. First-time homebuyers were given practical guidance on how to navigate the home buying process in the Standard Bank&#x2019;s First-Time Buyer Theatre. The seminar and workshop content will be an integral part of the event format for future planned shows.&#x201d; Sponsors and exhibitors at the show added to the overall atmosphere to ensure visitors enjoyed their experience, with FNB serving coffee, Standard Bank ran an interactive &#x2018;unlock the door&#x2019; competition, Niche Communications provided visitors with 3D virtual show-houses and Private Property & Chas Everett set up selfie walls and props. For more information, click here.