I am curious, respectful, practical, enthusiastic and agile. Mother, wife and friend. 1. Where do you live, work and play? I live in Cape Town, work in Woodstock and play at home, with family in the Eastern Cape. 2. What&#x2019;s your claim to fame? I am curious, respectful, practical, enthusiastic and agile. A mother, wife and friend. 3. Describe your career so far? I would describe it as a blessing. Yes, I work hard and play hard, however, I&#x2019;ve truly reached my goals and I am aiming even higher. I&#x2019;ve met so many different people over the last 13 years and I consider myself blessed to be part of such a great journey. Opportunities are endless and I love swimming in the deep end. 4. Tell us a few of your favourite things? I have five favourite things in life:My husband: He is such an amazing dad and husband. He is an inspiration to me and his friends. He supports me in everything I do and he accepts me for who I am.My son (1 year and 11 months). Antiques. Food.Wine. 5. What do you love about your industry? It&#x2019;s fast-paced, driven, never-ending and ever-changing. 6. What are a few pain points your industry can improve on? Clients will benefit from treating us like partners. Understand that while fast delivery is expected, too much pressure on turnaround time can end up in poor quality. However, at iKineo Fast Track, we have mastered fast delivery with great quality. 7. Describe your average workday, if such a thing exists. My normal day starts with my priorities planning ExCo call from my car, as I experience hectic traffic every morning. I grab a Rosetta coffee every morning and then make my way up to our office in Woodstock. My day includes meetings and ongoing staff engagement. I also have tons of emails every day and mostly checking timesheets, recons and reports. 8. What are the tools of your trade? Innovation, creativity, talented people with our iKineo DNA and, most of all, having respect. 9. Who is getting it right in your industry? People who are passionate and driven. 10. What are you working on right now? We are currently working on Telkom Business projects and FCA (Fiat Chrysler Automobiles). 11. Tell us some of the buzzwords floating around in your industry at the moment, and some of the catchphrases you utter yourself? Digital, data, CRM, Fast Track. 12. Where and when do you have your best ideas? At the Loeries and Flux Trends sessions. 13. What&#x2019;s your secret talent/party trick? I can actually sing and I am a jack of all trades. 14. What would we find if we scrolled through your phone? Loads of photos of my boy, husband and antique furniture. 15. What advice would you give to newbies hoping to crack into the industry? Be positive, curious, respectful, and most of all, play nice! Simple as that. Click here for more on iKineo and be sure to follow Strydom on the following social media channels for more: Twitter | Instagram | Facebook | Pinterest *Interviewed by Leigh Andrews.