The world has no limits. 1. Where do you live, work and play? I live in Lonehill, work in Sunninghill, and play with my kids at home. 2. What&#x2019;s your claim to fame? Working in different emerging markets such as China, India and South Africa. 3. Describe your career so far. I have global work experience in developing new technologies, making new friends, and most importantly, engaging with people and learning and adapting to new cultures. 4. Tell us a few of your favourite things. Movies and travelling &#x2013; I especially have a passion for visiting any place that touches on history. 5. What do you love about your industry? It&#x2019;s been the powerhouse of adapting new trends and technologies, hence there are no boundaries or guidelines of where to start or stop. It&#x2019;s all about bringing dreams to reality through data and mind. 6. Describe your average workday, if such a thing exists. Hmmm. It doesn&#x2019;t really exist, but my number one priority is work, so you can only imagine! 7. What are the tools of your trade? LinkedIn and connecting with regional, global and local leadership teams, so we can share and reapply solutions to similar challenges. 8. Who is getting it right in your industry? Technology companies are making their way into spaces such as ours, so any agency that adapts to these changes as we have will get it right because the players of the game have changed. 9. List a few pain points the industry can improve on. The industry talks a lot about the lack of data and technology. While this is a pain point, it is also an opportunity to invest in this area so that we, as a market, can grow together. 10. What are you working on right now? I am working on ensuring that my people are upskilled and growing by connecting them to our global talent pool, as well as sharing and exchanging ideas and creating an environment for innovation and incubation where people can take risks. 11. Tell us some of the buzzwords floating around in your industry at the moment, and some of the catchphrases you utter yourself. Viewerbility, Brand safety, human traffic, media supply chain and Freud. A catchphrase I frequently utter is: &#x201c;Driving simple solutions for complex challenges&#x201d;. 12. Where and when do you have your best ideas? Before bedtime and during flights. 13. What&#x2019;s your secret talent/party trick? To remain sober while everyone else gets sloshed! 14. What would we find if we scrolled through your phone? Family contact details. 15.What advice would you give to newbies hoping to crack into the industry? Over-deliver and be a team player. Simple as that. Click through to MediaCom&#x2019;s press office and follow them on Twitter for more. You can also email Williams on moc.mocaidem&#64;smailliw.hsihsa and connect with him on LinkedIn. *Interviewed by Leigh Andrews.