Hotel Verde staff celebrating the good news of FTT accreditation at the eco poolHailed as &#x201c;Africa&#x2019;s Greenest hotel&#x201d;, Hotel Verde has been set, since opening in 2013, on proving that luxury and sustainability can go hand in hand. The 145-bedroomed hotel earned its spot as one of the most sustainable hotels in the world, after becoming the first hotel worldwide, to receive a double-platinum green building certification from the United States Green Building Council in 2015. Hotel Verde recognised as best urban hotel at Sk l International Sustainable Tourism Awards"Hotel Verde is outstanding in their efforts and their consistent dedication to creating the least environmental impact on the local community."2 Nov 2016 It's not just about the building, it&#x2019;s about every aspect of the operation The Fair Trade certification brings new weight to Hotel Verde&#x2019;s commitment to responsible tourism principles, verifying the sustainable practices of more than just the hotel&#x2019;s design and building operations. The certification was audited extensively by KMPG and focused on aspects such as fair wages and working conditions, fair purchasing and operations, equitable distribution of benefits and respect for human rights, culture and the environment. "Going green is not just about the building, it&#x2019;s also about every aspect of the operation," says Samantha Annandale, CEO of Verde Hotels, the sustainable hotel management company behind Hotel Verde Cape Town and the soon-to-launch Hotel Verde Zanzibar. "As part of Hotel Verde Cape Town&#x2019;s commitment to be Africa&#x2019;s greenest hotel, management is committed to following the principal tenets of sustainable procurement, to minimise their environmental impact, to maximise wider social benefits and, of course, ensuring the wellbeing and future of our employees." Leaders in responsible tourism They are leaders in demonstrating that going green is not only responsible but also financially viable... Fair Trade Tourism was the first African certification scheme to be recognised by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council, representing global best practice in responsible tourism. "We are delighted to have Africa&#x2019;s greenest hotel, Hotel Verde onboard with Fair Trade Tourism. They are leaders in demonstrating that going green is not only responsible but also financially viable, whilst enhancing the client&#x2019;s experience at the same time. Following the principals of Thrivability, Hotel Verde is something to experience in person and a proud addition to Africa&#x2019;s most responsible portfolio of nearly 200 businesses," says Fair Trade Tourism Managing Director, Jane Edge. "The Fairtrade certification is an extremely proud alliance for our team," vouched Lindy Meiring, general manager of Hotel Verde Cape Town. "We believe that this has further validated our passionate dedication to sustainability and the future thereof. The mark of the Fair Trade certification will also give responsible travellers an easy way of identifying our commitment to responsible practices when choosing accommodation in Cape Town." Mario and Annemarie Delicio are the owners behind Hotel Verde. Dedicated and passionate about sustainability, they have transformed what was initially just a sensible business proposition into a showcase for all to follow. Hotel Verde will be showcased on the Verde Hotels stand, along with the upcoming Hotel Verde, Zanzibar at WTM Africa - stand N43.