In total, 227 entries have been awarded, with 74 Excellence and 138 Merit, including 13 South African winners. The Gold Quill Awards programme recognises business communication excellence globally, and is acknowledged as one of the most prestigious global awards programmes. Entries are evaluated against IABC&#x2019;s standard of excellence, and the feedback from this year&#x2019;s evaluators indicated that the standard of work in this year&#x2019;s awards was very strong. This year, awards have been won by organisations from around the world, with 16 countries represented in the winners list. The awards will be presented at the Excellence Awards Gala, to be held on Tuesday 13 June, as part of the IABC World Conference in Washington, D.C. International calibre Carol Allers, IABC Africa Regional Chairperson, says the number of winners is a testament to the quality of communication excellence in South Africa. &#x201c;We have a lot to be proud of! The record number of entries and winners from South Africa demonstrates the calibre of communication and the amazing work being rolled out by local communicators. Each South African winner was judged by two international judges, demonstrating our international calibre of work.&#x201d; Gold Quills chair, Ghrethna Kruger, congratulated the winners on their achievement. &#x201c;All your hard work has paid off and winning a Gold Quill Award puts you in the top ranks of the business communicators of the world. On behalf of myself and the entire IABC Africa Regional Board, thank you for entering the programme&#x201d;, says Kruger. Daniel Munslow, a director on the International Executive Board of the IABC, says &#x201c;The Africa region can also be proud of the achievement of having the largest judging panel in the world. Under the guidance of our Gold Quills chair, Ghrethna Kruger, we hosted 34 South African judges who evaluated international entries. Award programmes like this are important to benchmark global best practice in strategic business communication, and hope to continue the trend of showcasing excellent work from South Africa&#x201d;. South African appointed to IABC boardIABC appoints delegate from Africa to executive board...20 Apr 2016 The winners of the best of the best awards and IABC agency and communication department of the year awards will be announced at the Excellence Awards Gala at the World Conference. Our South African winners include: Excellence Award winnersAfrica Technology Back on Track, Sophia Dower, Barclays AfricaTUHF Internal brand refresh, Terri Brown, The Logical TruthMakarapa City &#x2013; Anglo American created community radio drama, Mooketsi Mocumi, Ann Farndell, Rochelle de Paiva, Pranill Ramchander, Sibusiso Tshabalala (Anglo American South Africa) "Pencil me In" Stakeholder Research, SABC Pension FundInnovative research methods for Sappi&#x2019;s vast rural workforce, Sappi Communications and DevCom Teams, Sappi Limited South Africa Merit Award winnersAnglo American Employee Indebtedness Programme (Anglo American South Africa): Ann Farndell, Rochelle de Paiva, Mpumi Sithole, Mooketsi Mocumi, Gert Schoeman, Tintswalo Khosa-Gieseke, Carolyn Lewis (Summit), Leigh Nooy (Summit), Olwen Auret (Russell & Associates)Ensuring Stakeholder Confidence in a Fluid Environment, SABC Pension FundChurch & Strategic Clarity: The Rise of Communicating Leaders, Chantalle Schutte, The Apostolic Faith Mission of South AfricaThe Abashintshi Social Mobilisation Project, Sappi Communications and DevCom Teams, Development Communication SolutionsSound[W]right: UFS student tone and voice project, Leonie Bolleurs, University of the Free StateNuevo Traditions &#x2013; a modern interpretation of ancient philosophies, rituals and stories using new technology, Anglo American PlatinumTen years of The DevCom Way book, Mari Lee, Charmain Lines, Graham Hankin, Development Communication SolutionsFor such a time as this: A commemorative journey, UFS Department of Communication and Brand Management, University of the Free State Dancing under the stars with elephants at the IABC Africa gala dinnerIt was a night of celebrating SA's top communicators as well as a night of firsts - stomping across the dance floor to silent disco beats, anyone? That's just one way we acknowledged the 'elephants in the room', along with the first starry constellation of IABC Africa Silver Quill winners...By Leigh Andrews 8 Nov 2016