The project is meant to strengthen the regional power interconnections between the three countries, which are also member states of the East African Community (EAC). Kagera River. Source: wikipedia Livelihood restoration programme Apart from the 7,000 households to benefit through the local area development programme, there will be additional 188 households, surrounding the project, to benefit directly through the livelihood restoration programme. "This is in addition to providing job opportunities to over 500 skilled, non- skilled and casual workers from the three benefiting countries," a press statement said. Regional cooperation Construction of the power generation plant is financed by the World Bank, while the transmission lines that will connect the power plant to the national grids in the three countries will be financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). The Rusumo Power Plant is implemented by the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Programme Coordination Unit (NELSAP-CU) mandated by the three countries through the Rusumo Power Company Ltd (RPCL). The NELSAP-CU regional coordinator, Elicad Nyabeeya, stressed that the regional project requires effective coordination and management to deliver the power plant, associated transmission lines and sub-stations on time. He reiterated that once the project is completed, it will enhance socio-economic growth, reinforce regional cooperation, partnership and peace within the Kagera River Basin countries. Construction of the power plant is expected to take three years, until 2020. It will be undertaken by a joint venture of Chinese companies, CGCOC Group Limited and Jiangxi Water & Hydropower Construction Company Limited Joint Venture (CGCOC - JWHC JV). The two Chinese firms will execute the civil works in addition to supply and installation of hydro-mechanical equipment while a consortium Rusumo Falls Andritz Hydro GmbH of Germany and Andritz Hydro PVT Limited of India will supply and install electro-mechanical equipment for the power plant.