Holding company Grand Parade Investments has built a unique kid&#x2019;s play area on the first floor above their Burger King and Dunkin&#x2019; Donuts outlets in Goodwood, close to N1 City Mall. The play area features touch tables, gaming stations, interactive floor projections and a fully automated digital photo booth. Moving Tactics, the leading South African digital signage solutions company, was employed to build a custom-designed, vinyl-wrapped, powder-coated steel fabricated housing, into which a 32&#x201d; industrial LED touch display, HD camera and PC have been installed to deliver a &#x2018;selfie&#x2019; booth that needs no human interaction. As kids enter the photo booth, pop-up prompts on the screen take them through a basic three-step process to have their photograph taken. After the countdown that gets them ready to pose and smile for the camera, each image is digitally stored on a cloud-based server. The photographed subjects are then given the option to share their digital image via Facebook, Twitter or email. All images are branded with the company logo before being sent to social media channels. Andy Higginbotham, Creative Director at Moving Tactics Digital Impact, says, &#x201c;This has been a great project for us to work on. These photo booths are very popular with the kids and in today&#x2019;s day and age, the youngsters are very technically minded and have no problem in quickly working out how the technology works.&#x201d; Moving Tactics Digital Impact specialises in short-term, rental and campaign-based digital activation solutions. In addition to providing concept development and implementation using touch, projection and holographic technology, they also design and manufacture screen housings and bespoke items based on brief. Moving Tactics is a leading South African digital signage solutions company that develops customised digital signage technologies and is constantly creating innovative communication solutions. Website: www.movingtactics.co.za Facebook: www.facebook.com/MovingTacticsCT Twitter: @MovingTacticsSA