The hotel is situated just off Kloof Street, in the midst of a huddle of some of the best restaurants and bars in Cape Town and is ideally located for missions up Table Mountain and Lions Head or a quick Uber to Camps Bay beach and happening Bree Street. That said, there is no need to even travel from the hotel to experience slick sophistication and creative hipsterism. Cloud 9 offers a two-level rooftop bar, with a small pool, loungers and picture-perfect views of Table Mountain and the city. The wind levels were bordering on hurricane level when we stayed there so we quickly chinked our complimentary bubbles and headed to the indoor bar area to finish them off. I can imagine on a warm and wind-still day, the rooftop bar offers the perfect place to relax and watch the sunset with a sundowner in hand. Pizza is also offered if feeling a bit peckish. Checking in&#xfffd;&#xfffd; #cloud9 A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on Apr 7, 2017 at 8:02am PDT The Sorrows buzz Adjoined to the hotel is The Sorrows bar and restaurant. Don&#x2019;t take the name to heart as this beautifully decorated and trendy bar is packed with local and visiting cool kids. Offering light lunches and bar snacks, The Sorrows is the perfect place to gain a buzz before heading out for a night on the town. The Sorrows also acts as a breakfast spot for the general public and those staying at the hotel. A light buffet of fruit, cereal, and croissants is offered as well as an a la carte menu. I sampled the meat and cheese platter which included a crispy-on-the-outside and soft-and-steamy-on-the-inside croissant with an array of meats and cheeses. I would say that R65 is a bit steep for this dish, especially seeing as the b chamel and dill pickle that was advertised to accompany it never appeared&#x2026; Apparently, none was in stock and nothing else was offered to replace it. My only slight niggle. My partner chose the Full English Fry Up, I snuck a few bites and much praise must go to the flavour-packed fried mushrooms. Breakfast of sorrow &#xfffd;&#xfffd;&#xfffd;&#xfffd; A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on Apr 8, 2017 at 12:21am PDT D cor unity Our room was one of the Heritage Deluxe rooms, this included modern and tasteful d cor in charcoal grey and turquoise, a shared balcony, massive bed, and en-suite bathroom with a spacious two-person shower. The room also came with a Nespresso machine, 40" Ultra HD TV, soundproofed windows, Wi-Fi, a safe, and air conditioning. The rest of the hotel follows suit with the beautiful d cor elements. Unique art and furniture tastefully weave together all the separate elements of the hotel: rooms, courtyard, spa, gym and rooftop bar. The hotel is the combination of five different heritage properties and was transformed from the original Leeuwenvoet House in December last year. Cloud 9 also houses the Luxe Laser Studio which includes an infrared sauna, Jacuzzi, two treatment rooms and a myriad of treatments from manicures to anti-aging facials and laser hair removal. Stay tuned for my review of the classic collagen facial and Tsamma hand manicure on Bizcommunity soon. For more info or to make a booking go to www.cloudnine.com