This comes shortly after Leeu Estates was named as one of the best new hotels on Travel + Leisure&#x2019;s It List 2017, one of only 44 properties around the globe. Leeu Estates - Manor House and Spa Representing the vanguard of the hotel world The Cond Nast Traveler Hot List celebrates the best properties that have opened their doors during the past year. For this 21st edition of the Hot List, editors and reporters crisscrossed various continents and countries to review hundreds of new properties first hand. From this the outstanding winners are chosen, hotels that represent the vanguard of the hotel world. Leeu Estates opened its doors in June 2016. Located between the mountainside and river with spectacular views of the Franschhoek valley, this property - on 68 hectares of vineyards, landscaped gardens, and fynbos (indigenous vegetation) - is the ideal setting for guests to see and enjoy the true experiences of a working wine farm. Leeu Estates is testimony to the pillars of the brand: superlative service with attention to the smallest detail; an award-winning wine portfolio, distinctive architecture and sophisticated design; inspiring art collections and manicured and detailed landscaping which reflects respect for the environment. From personal journey to world-class hotel It all started as a personal journey for Leeu Collection&#x2019;s founder Analjit Singh (aka BAS), an international investor of Indian origin. Captivated by the Western Cape&#x2019;s exceptional beauty and vibrant energy during a trip to South Africa for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, he decided to buy a family home in the Franschhoek valley. The idea of a family home, however, soon transformed into what it is today &#x2013; three historic farms joined to create a world-class hospitality and winemaking destination. &#x201c;I am extremely grateful for all the people who never stop discovering new places, says Carrie Wicks, Leeu Collection CEO. &#x201c;Being mentioned among some of the world&#x2019;s best new hotels with the highest standards, is a confirmation of Leeu Collection&#x2019;s philosophy, the effervescent talent of our team and the memorable journey we want every guest to experience and revisit.&#x201d;