The companies will start using battery-electric vehicles in Hermes&#x2019; normal operations in a pilot phase in Stuttgart and Hamburg in early 2018. The focus will be on the economy, sustainability and practicality of emission-free delivery vans when used for the last mile. By the end of 2020, Hermes Germany intends to deploy 1500 Mercedes-Benz Vito and Sprinter electric vans in urban areas across Germany. "Electric drive is a key technology for urban transport - especially in commercial use. Last-mile deliveries must become more efficient and - in specific applications - emission-free. &#x201c;This is a specific implementation of our plans for tailored industry solutions in cooperation with our customers. Hermes requires mid-size and large vans with electric drive for its applications. We can meet both needs with high-quality, reliable and safe vehicles that set high standards also in terms of driver ergonomics" stated Volker Mornhinweg, head of Mercedes-Benz Vans. "We are continuing along the path of sustainably renewing our fleet of vehicles. An important key aspect for the future is the gradual electrification of our fleet in urban areas. At the same time, we are continuing with the full changeover to low-emission Euro 6 vehicles", said Frank Rausch, CEO of Hermes Germany GmbH. More economy and sustainability, higher service quality By the year 2025, Hermes plans to carry out deliveries in the inner-city areas of all major German cities completely free of emissions. Solely electricity from 100 percent regenerative energy sources will be used to charge the electric vehicles' batteries. The electricity will be generated with a completely neutral effect on the climate and, accordingly, in line with the green electricity label "Gr ner Strom" from the environmental associations. One special focus is on the technical feasibility and economic efficiency of battery-electric vehicles in the CEP industry. New concepts are to be developed for the integration of battery-electric vans - including the required charging infrastructure - into existing operational processes. Connectivity, cargo space and more Another crucial driver of efficiency improvements is the development of system solutions in the vehicle and beyond that are optimally adapted for the specific applications. In the context of this strategic partnership, Mercedes-Benz Vans will thus also implement connected services - for example, services that facilitate optimal route planning with the use of information on the vans' batteries and remaining range. The van producer will also contribute intelligent cargo-space solutions and innovative mobility services to the partnership. With the implementation of its strategic future initiative, adVANce, Mercedes-Benz Vans is being transformed from a pure vehicle manufacturer into a supplier of customer-oriented holistic system solutions. It is concentrating on four areas in which it will invest up to &#x20ac;500 million by 2020: the integration of various connectivity solutions in vans, hardware solutions for the van sector, new mobility concepts for the needs-oriented transport of persons and goods, and optimised electric drive systems tailored to specific applications.