 wklzzz via 123RF.comSACS is a 40 Tbps cable &#x2014; 6,165 km in length &#x2014; with four fibre pairs that will connect Angola to Brazil, linking Africa and the Americas. (Each fibre pair is capable of transmitting 100 wavelengths with a bandwidth of 100Gbit/s.) Angola Cables is one of the 12 members of the consortium that manages WACS (and one of its largest shareholders), a cable system which provides carrier level services to operators in Angola and sub-Saharan Africa across 11 countries. As a 14,530km cable running from Yzerfontein (South Africa) to London (UK), WACS has four fibre pairs and includes 14 landing points, 12 along the western coast of Africa (including Cape Verde and Canary Islands) and two in Europe (Portugal and England). Crucial factor With the marine survey successfully completed, Angola Cables assures that the cable will be deployed in the best route, thus avoiding hazardous points, a crucial factor in ensuring longevity of SACS. Completion of the marine survey means that final manufacturing can be completed and any minor route and/or cable type adjustments can be fine-tuned based on the actual survey findings. With the loading of the Pre-Laid Shore End (PLSE) the construction of SACS is underway. For this aspect of the cable system, Angola Cables commissioned NEC Japan and contracted Ocean Specialists, Inc (OSI) to oversee the construction process, all to assure the highest levels of quality. &#x201c;We have worked closely with our partners and suppliers to ensure the highest possible value of the SACS network for our customers,&#x201d; said Antonio Nunes, CEO of Angola Cables. &#x201c;As part of our global connectivity strategy, SACS will offer the first direct, high-capacity southern transatlantic connection.&#x201d; SACS to be ready by the middle of 2018 &#x201c;These key milestones illustrate that the SACS cable is on target for completion as Angola Cables continues to build sales momentum for delivery of services on SACS by the middle of 2018. Increasingly, customers are turning to the southern transatlantic route for diversification and security. SACS, coupled with Monet and the existing WACS cable, provide unparalleled value for which we are seeing very high demand in the marketplace,&#x201d; added Artur Mendes, chief commercial officer for Angola Cables.