 wklzzz via 123RFThis follows the cabinet&#x2019;s approval that the national e-strategy, national e-government strategy, and the ICT SMME support strategy be gazetted for public comment. The strategies will contribute to the implementation of the national development plan goal of creating an information society and knowledge economy. National e-strategy The national e-strategy emanates from Chapter 10 of the National Integrated Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Policy White Paper and is an essential part of the implementation plan for this white paper. The purpose of the national e-strategy is to articulate the vision for the development of an inclusive information society and knowledge economy for the country that is based on the needs of the citizens, business, and public sector. It also articulates the role of government in the use of ICTs to improve service delivery; the involvement of all South Africans in growing the economy; the use of e-commerce, ensuring that the population possess the necessary skills and abilities to use ICTs, as well as developing comprehensive programmes to counter cyber security threats. National e-government strategy The national e-government strategy and roadmap also derives from Chapter 10 of the National Integrated ICT Policy White Paper which emphasises the need to realise the digital transformation of public services. The purpose of the national e-government strategy and roadmap is to guide the digital transformation of public service in South Africa into an inclusive digital society where all citizens can benefit from the opportunities offered by digital technologies to improve their quality of life. This strategy builds on the various e-government initiatives implemented by a number of departments over the past 14 years. ICT SMME strategy The ICT SMME support strategy is a direct response to the key objectives of government policy on the need to build an inclusive economic growth, create employment and reduce poverty, as outlined in the NDP and the Nine-Point Plan. The ICT SMME support strategy aims to unlock the business opportunities and create an enabling business and administrative environment for SMMEs in the ICT sector to thrive into successful and sustainable entities. It outlines strategic interventions required to address the current challenges in the ICT sector that constrain the growth and development of SMMEs. It also aims to increase the levels of uptake and usage of ICTs by SMMEs across economic sectors. Over the next few weeks, the department will embark on provincial road shows to explain the policies and solicit inputs from members of society, interest groups, labour and business. The strategies can be accessed here. Written comments Written submission and queries on the strategies can be directed to the following people: 1. National e-strategy Angie Mokgabudi Tel: (012) 420 7726 Email: az.vog.sptd&#64;ygetartse 2. National e-government strategy Jeanette Morwane Tel: (012) 420 7003 Email: az.vog.sptd&#64;oapeynomd or az.vog.sptd&#64;egnisamt 3. ICT SMME support strategy Charles Mabuza Tel: 012 420 7744 Email: az.vog.sptd&#64;ygetartsemmstci