&#x201c;I&#x2019;m thinking Cape Town and the sea but here we are, in the mountain village of Greyton and loving it,&#x201d; he says. For the first two years it was all hands on deck as they, together with interior designer son Hendre and marketing-focused daughter Ansjah, transformed the Main Street, Greyton address into a contemporary and stylish accommodation option. Bloem explains that the initial building was an 1882 trading post and then police station, but the former lodge owners expanded to build accommodations around the garden courtyard while linking to the original Manor House. Visually stylish We stayed in their Executive Garden Room seven with a small patio or &#x201c;stoep&#x201d; and charming outlook over the Main Street towards the mountains beyond. It is important to note that if private shower room and loo are important to you, to select any one of the Manor House rooms and suites. Although a visually stylish separation with a floor to ceiling curtain, good ventilation and an extractor fan, I much prefer the privacy of the en-suite option. I like their interpretation of the contemporary South African farmhouse design ethic with accent cushions with Protea flowers and brilliant pendant bedside lights which reference the protea blossom made from wire, in our room. In the public areas, designer Haldane Martin&#x2019;s Zulu Mama woven chairs and Weightless Glass Coffee Table, along with contemporary interpretations of the Cape Dutch &#x201c;riempie&#x201d; stool with strung leather cords and rope are visually arresting and comfortable. In fact, all around us are clean lines and functional yet very stylish decor touches - nothing without purpose or sense of place. Exploring Greyton Greyton has much to offer, and the lodge, within easy walking distance of all the main restaurants and charming coffee shops, is the perfect base from which to explore. Although there&#x2019;s a TV lounge with a big screen set-up, there are no televisions in the rooms. Bloem explains: &#x201c;We have WiFi throughout the property, so people are more than welcome to use their laptops or iPads but we wanted to create a quiet getaway from the typical city distractions.&#x201d; A hearty and delicious breakfast is offered and there is a kettle and tea and coffee in a tray in your room. If you are a coffee fiend and early riser, as we are, I recommend you bring along your own plunger as we couldn&#x2019;t find anywhere in the village serving good coffee before 8.30am. There are many well-priced restaurant options and plenty were open on the Sunday evening we stayed. While at the lodge, take time to enjoy the pool - shaped like a farm dam with magnificent mountain views - and don&#x2019;t miss a walk or, indeed a major hike, from Greyton to McGregor over the mountain. Bicycles are available to rent from the lodge and there is the river nearby if you want to fish or swim. www.GreytonLodge.co.za