A collection of pictures taken from ibtm africa 2016 An exclusive 2016 study conducted by Grant Thornton in partnership with WTM Africa, concluded that there were upwards of five million outbound travellers from South Africa in 2015, inclusive of a 7,6% increase in air departures throughout the year. These travellers made trips to familiar destinations including USA, Australia, Britain, Germany and Indonesia amongst others. The Outbound Pavilion When estimating the outbound leisure market through travel agency and wholesale sales, the study uncovered that travellers using travel trade channels to book their trips totalled between 200,000 and 250,000. More insights and statistics on from this research is to be revealed at WTM Africa 2017 in a new session taking place in the Outbound Theatre on 20 April at 10.30am. &#x201c;To better assist in developing travel trade selling outbound destination to South Africans, WTM Africa is constantly adding international exhibitors and content to its portfolio for the exhibition,&#x201d; says Marchesi. Marchesi furthers that WTM Africa 2017 will see the introduction of an outbound pavilion that will allow international destinations a space to market to outbound travel trade in attendance. The pavilion will be sectioned into desktop setup areas for destinations that will allow exhibitors to host meetings with their contacts and do business. Outbound specialists that wish to take advantage of this exciting opportunity can contact Penny Snodgrass at az.oc.acirfaopxedeer&#64;ssargdonS.ynneP . The Outbound Conference Theatre Furthermore, the Outbound Conference Theatre, new to WTM Africa, will offer a full programme for travel professionals to learn more about international and Pan-African destinations through interactive workshops. These destination workshops will both up skill and educate attendees on selling various destinations. The workshops will be hosted by individual destinations from around the globe who have a depth of knowledge on how to package the destination, its cities, activities and more. All sessions and information can be found on the Event Programme page.