The auction process will take place online and will be open to all South Africans. Bidding will open on Monday, 3 April 2017 and remain open until midday on Wednesday, 12 April 2017. During this time, the Defender will be on display at the Jaguar Land Rover Sandton dealership, on Rivonia Road in Sandton. First driven by Holgate in 2015, this Defender has conquered the toughest terrain Africa has to offer. On her maiden expedition, she transported Greybeard across six countries and 9000km, on an expedition to find the Heart of Africa. To reach this remote location in the Republic of Congo, Holgate and his team faced countless challenges: from armed militia and poachers, to dangerous animals, deadly insects and inhospitable conditions. Occasionally, these encounters left their mark on the Defender &#x2013; each one a chapter in her life story; an authentic signature from every road she has travelled. History &#x201c;This Defender has a history like no other. She does not have dings and scratches, she has character and provenance,&#x201d; said Lisa Mallett, marketing director of Jaguar Land Rover South Africa and sub-Sahara Africa. In 2016 Ndhlovukazi once again took Kingsley along roads less travelled, this time zig-zagging its way through Africa on a 66-day-long trek to reach Lake Chew Bahir. To aid it in conquering Africa&#x2019;s most hostile terrain during its travels, the car was equipped with a number of accessories &#x2013; which will remain fitted to the vehicle. Reinforced skid plates and nudge bars helped it forge through craggy passes and dense bush. A snorkel intake and mud-terrain tyres gave Holgate confidence through river crossings, dense rain forests and dirt. Off-road shock absorbers allowed for a higher ride-height. &#x201c;Over the years, Land Rover has kindly provided me with many Defenders to explore and document the beauty and diversity of Mama Afrika, but I think my memories of Ndhlovukazi will be some of the fondest,&#x201d; said Holgate. &#x201c;It&#x2019;s fantastic to know her spirit will live on in the hands of a dedicated Land Rover enthusiast. Bidding will start at R449,000, inclusive of VAT. For more go to www.landrover.co.za or for the bidding site visit www.lastdefender.co.za.