The building&#x2019;s fa ade, made up of concrete and exposed brickwork, exudes an industrial feeling that is juxtaposed with organic elements, like curved walls and timber beams. Inhouse director Phillip Wyatt and team leader Megan Cloete steered the project and were inspired by both the infrastructure industry and the building itself, which came with curved glass windows and intricate timber-clad ceilings. They opted for an industrial-organic aesthetic, and incorporated GAIA&#x2019;s corporate colours of black, blue and gold into the design. Cloete explains: &#x201c;The building is absolutely beautiful. The aim of our design was to complement the architecture and not compete with it. We were able to achieve this by using neutral tones throughout the space, modern furnishings, as well as raw materials like concrete and timber.&#x201d; Industrial-inspired space The reception area entails an industrial-inspired space. An exposed soffit forms the foundation of the room, as well as a curved concrete wall, which separates the reception area from the restrooms. The curvature of the wall emulates the room&#x2019;s large curved glass windows and complements the organic aesthetic of the building. Inhouse incorporated a selection of plush furnishings in the interior that feature GAIA&#x2019;s corporate colours, including a sleek timber reception desk, rug, and comfortable blue seating. A decorative circular bulkhead, crafted from timber slats is suspended overhead and is embedded with black and gold lights. Neutral-coloured tiling spans the room, providing a clean palette to highlight the reception area&#x2019;s furniture and architectural elements. Incorporating nature The industrial-organic appearance extends beyond reception to the building&#x2019;s primary office area. Intricate timber-clad ceilings, supported with structured wooden beams, serve as a striking visual element in this space. Trees and shrubbery peer through the building&#x2019;s large glass windows, not only offering ample light but welcoming nature as part of the overall design. To complement these features, Inhouse made use of monochromatic carpeting and black and timber desking systems. The walls were left exposed to promote a raw, urban-like appeal. Additionally, a series of boardrooms, framed in black aluminum, form part of the office space. A walkway connects the building&#x2019;s office area, reception and kitchen. In keeping with the neutral colour palette and industrial theme, light grey painted brick walls and concrete elements were included throughout this section. The kitchen features a bar-style counter that is clad with dark charcoal tiles, topped with grey stone and highlighted with stylish pendant lights. In true mezzanine style, a steel staircase unites the ground floor and the second floor office areas. This separates the company&#x2019;s departments while ensuring an open-plan environment is established throughout the building.