For travellers looking to have a memorable safari experience in a tranquil and exclusively set South African safari destination, here is a selection of the three top private nature reserves in South Africa. Ulusaba Private Game Reserve The award-winning Ulusaba Private Game Reserve is an epitome of luxurious and exclusive safari experience. Set in the heart of the Sabi Sands Game Reserve, Ulusaba Private Game Reserve offers one of the most tranquil early morning and afternoon private game drive experiences. With over 13,500ha of flora and fauna, rich South African bushveld, visitors can also enjoy the African bush on guided bush walks. #ulusabaprivategamereserve #southafrica #ulusaba A post shared by ulusaba game reserve (@ulusabagamereserve) on Dec 15, 2016 at 5:44pm PST Apart from providing luxurious accommodation, Ulusaba's two lodges give visitors exclusive Big Five sightings, and breathtaking views of the setting sun or stars at night. And, you can also use the bush observatory for those memorable views of stars at night. Timbavati Private Nature Reserve Home to rare white lions, and with its diversity of wildlife and luxurious lodges and tented camps, Timbavati Private Nature Reserve is yet another best pick for the traveller looking for the best safari experience in a private setting. Sightings and close encounters with the Big Five are guaranteed in Timbavati, as it shares an unfenced border with the Kruger National Park. Honeymoon suite p Kings Camp, Timbavati Private Nature Reserve #kingscamp #timbavati #timbavatiprivatenaturereserve #gamedrive #safari #safariresor #krugerpark #krugernationalpark #greaterkrugernationalpark #honeymoonsuite #luxurysafari #luxuryaccommodation #bigfive #upplevsydafrika A post shared by Upplev Sydafrika (@upplevsydafrika) on Feb 3, 2017 at 1:03am PST Apart from guided morning and afternoon game drives, Timbavati offers guided bush walks where visitors get to sample the unique African flora and fauna. Visitors can also enjoy uninterrupted game viewing at the reserves waterhole, as they watch the sun set in the horizon or have a view at the stars. Luxury lodges and tented camps offer a unique dining and accommodation experience for visitors to Timbavati Nature Reserve. Phinda Private Game Reserve The Phinda Private Game Reserve offers the best safari experience for big cat viewers and cheetah lovers, as well as unique rhino safari experiences featuring the endangered white and black rhinos. Safari Selfie with the my amazing Phinda family! #safariselfie #bushlife#andbeyondrangers #phindaprivategamereserve #lovinglife A post shared by Ricci (@riccichristen) on Aug 29, 2016 at 12:14pm PDT A safari experience at Phinda Private Game Reserve offers guided day and night game drives and safari walks, with spectacular Big Five viewings, and the reserve also hosts uniquely designed lodges that are designed to afford privacy and seclusion, while at the same time offering the privilege of indoor game viewing.