Cape Town is the eighth stop on the One Star House Party world tour, which has seen the team set up pop-up restaurants in China, Vietnam, Thailand, Oman, at the Everest Base Camp in Nepal and most recently on a float in Kenya. Local ingredients The restaurant in Cape Town, set in a Woodstock loft, will open for dinner from Wednesday, 26 April until Thursday, 11 May. The loft space can accommodate up to 50 diners a night and guests can anticipate a seven-course tasting menu, featuring the best local ingredients with a twist &#x2013; with the details of the Cape Town menu to be revealed on opening night. Interested foodies are advised to book soon to avoid missing out. Sharman and his team, which includes fellow chef Kevin McCrae and manager Trish McCrae, honed their culinary skills at leading restaurants, most notably Noma in Copenhagen, as well as The Ledbury and Tom Aiken&#x2019;s in London. The team travels to a new destination each month, erects a pop-up restaurant, develops a tasting menu based on local cuisine and culture, and invites the public to an intimate dinner in their new home. This month it&#x2019;s Cape Town, next month Florence. Interactive experience &#x201c;We apply the techniques we gleaned while working as chefs in some of the world&#x2019;s best restaurants to the local food of the country we are in and serve this to our guests,&#x201d; explains Sharman. &#x201c;There is a story behind every dish. In our interactive dining experience there are no waiters. Trish, Kevin and I personally serve each course and share the story and inspiration for the dish with our guests.&#x201d; One Star House Party also invites young chefs to join them on their creative journey. Chefs may apply to join a pop-up. If chosen, they are flown in to assist for the duration of the event. In Cape Town the team will be joined by Paul Graham of Scotland and Ellis Maloney of Australia. Those who feel they possess the culinary skills to assist the OSHP crew can apply via OneStarHouseParty.com. Tickets are $85 each and available online on OneStarHouseParty.com. Guests are asked to BYOB.