 Richard de GouveiaOpening day, 30 March 2017, saw soccer legends such as Mark Fish, Brian Baloyi, Ashley Makhanya, Edward Motale and Jabulani Mendu take on the Alex All Stars, captained by Maimane Alfred Phiri. The inaugural game saw the launch of a soccer league that will be open for the public to participate in on a weekly basis. The weekend saw over 100,000 feet through the door and set the pace for what promises to become the new local favourite. Decade in the making The regional mall, situated on the intersection of the N3 highway and London Road, is the realisation of a dream a decade in the making. Developed by McCormick Property Development, Valumax and Galxcoc, it is the largest private investment into the township to date. More than 90 stores spanning 30,000 sqm, the mall brings "unprecedented levels of retail and a unique entertainment element" into Alexandra. The double-level centre includes Shoprite, Pick n Pay, Truworths, Identity, Mr Price, Jet, Foschini, Nedbank, Capitec, Studio 88, KFC, Pepkor, Rage, Relay Jeans, Totalsports, Sportscene, Edgars Active, Legit, X-Trainer and The Establishment. It is the inclusion of a 5-a-side soccer courts and a &#x2018;Living Museum&#x2019; that reveals the mall's aim to be more than just a pure retail centre. The soccer court facilities offer the community an opportunity to come together through sport, offering free clinics to local schools as well as formalised leagues in the evenings. Richard de Gouveia Acknowledging community members The &#x2018;Living Museum&#x2019; acknowledges those members of the Alex community that have played a significant role in moulding the township into what it is today. &#x201c;From former presidents, jazz artists and soccer giants, Alex has provided a number of legends and we thought this was a small, but fitting way to embrace the people of Alexandra,&#x201d; explains MD of McCormick Property, Jason McCormick. Richard de Gouveia The Alex Mall will house the first formal taxi rank on the eastern side of Alexandra, offering a convenient location with its close proximity to London Road, the N3 highway and the Marlboro Gautrain Station. Job creation from the project includes in excess of 2,000 jobs (permanent and semi-permanent) with a focus on employing and uplifting local residents.