Jack FilleryTell us about Tomjachu Bush Retreat Tomjachu is an exclusive private nature reserve set in over 550 hectares (1,300 acres) of game fenced mountain bushveld, located within the Crocodile Valley Nature Conservancy overlooking the southern boundary of the Kruger National Park and the great Crocodile River valley. Originally a tobacco farm in the seventies, we have strived over the last 30 years to reinstate the area&#x2019;s natural ecosystems through careful management and the reintroduction of various species, to provide a haven of conservation for indigenous plants, birds, mammals and other wildlife. It was originally intended to be home to my grandfather Gordon Fillery and our family, and the homestead was built between 1988 and 1991. Sadly Gordon fell ill during our first and only Christmas together on the farm and died in early 1992, leaving it to my father Brian Fillery. My father quickly recognised that the property was imbued with tremendous potential due to its beauty, energy, and history &#x2013; including the Voortrekker wagon trails that can still be seen on the farm. He set about expanding it and turning it into a viable enterprise. The estate was stocked with game and the homestead enhanced and expanded using stone hewn on the farm itself. Bush Cottage, Rock House, and Keeper&#x2019;s Cottage were added and our former family home, now the multiple award-winning Valbonne Villa, was re-invented to become a serene destination for tourists from all corners of the world. As the enterprise grew, more land was acquired and the farm was renamed Tomjachu, after us three sons, Tom, Jack, and Hugo. The great pride and deep roots our family has in our heritage are what mattered when we were deciding on the name. Following my father&#x2019;s tragic death after a short fight with cancer in 2016 it fell to me, together with help from my brothers, Tom and Hugo, to continue the vision of Tomjachu, and today Brian and Gordon&#x2019;s aspiration of a paradise for those they left behind is truly being fulfilled. Give us a taste of what to expect from Tomjachu at WTM Africa 2017 Expect to receive some first-hand extensive knowledge on an award-winning, family-owned, proudly South African bush retreat which offers a myriad of activities and tranquil locations to all who visit. In addition, Tomjachu Bush Retreat offers its guests so much more than just a place to stay, find out how by visiting our stand at WTM Africa 2017. What sets Tomjachu apart from other bush retreats in SA and the rest of the continent? Our rich family history which is imbued throughout the property gives Tomjachu a unique atmosphere, and a genuine feeling of it being &#x2018;yours&#x2019; whilst you are here. We invite all of our guests to enjoy the property as if their own when they stay with us, and to roam at will. Not being a Big 5 property allows adults and children alike to explore the stunning mountain bushveld at their own pace, allowing our guests to create wonderful memories of their own in beautiful surroundings. We are also wonderfully situated to allow our guests to explore the rest of the Lowveld, being only 45 minutes from the Kruger Park, a short drive from the nearby Panoramic route, and much more. We offer a familial atmosphere with excellent service, stunning views, and a passion for making each guest experience unique. Tomjachu has won multiple awards, including Valbonne Villa as the provincial winner and national finalist of the Lilizela Tourism awards three years running, and The Luxury Travel Guide Award for Country Retreat of the Year 2017. This is the third year that Tomjachu will be at WTM Africa, why do you keep coming back and why would you recommend other establishments and destinations to participate? WTM is truly a great platform for all like-minded business practitioners to meet and explore more prospects for growth. Having participated in previous years, I am delighted to say that the show has grown exponentially, allowing us to branch out into international markets and engage with industry experts, exchanging skills and knowledge. What do you hope to achieve at WTM Africa 2017? This year we aim to meet more people interested in our projects and product and to open up new avenues in the industry, as well as reaffirming existing relationships with partners. We have some very exciting new projects on the horizon, and we are looking forward to introducing these plans and our current offerings to visitors to our stand. For all looking to attend WTM Africa 2017, visit Tomjachu Bush Retreat at stand number S07 and learn more about what this bush retreat, set in the heart of Mpumalanga, has to offer.