Image supplied The launch of the Signature Lux Hotel group is significant in the current digital age. &#x201c;As hotel developers and operators, our team is constantly benchmarking ourselves against the latest successful brand innovations within the hospitality industry,&#x201d; says Paul Kelley, managing director. A technologically advanced option The Signature Lux Hotel experience offers guests exclusive services, some of which include a fully integrated app which offers more than just a booking function. Your entire hotel visit is controlled at your fingertips. After your first stay, check in remotely from any location and your cell phone doubles up as your room key. Signature Lux offer a 24-hour hassle free, self-service check-in kiosk, automated housekeeping, internal Wi-Fi calling and a built-in &#x201c;call-a-cab&#x201d; service. Guests can enjoy free, uncapped, unshaped Wi-Fi and individual Wi-Fi routers in each room to take full advantage of the movie and music streaming services from 40 inch Samsung smart TVs. &#x201c;We have developed a technically advanced room space using specialised lighting, mood music, providing free high-speed internet connectivity allowing our guests to be able to use their smartphones as room keys amongst several other tech items&#x201d;, adds Kelley. Image supplied Wildlife conservation and sustainability Their first property in Sandton is located 30 steps from Nelson Mandela Square, 300 steps from the Sandton Convention Centre and 230 steps from the Gautrain station. This sought after property will also be the most &#x201c;Instagrammable&#x201d; building in the city with wildlife murals painted by Faith47.com. Signature Lux has formed a partnership with the Endangered Wildlife Trust and one of the partnership initiatives entails giving back R5 for each room booked to protect the endangered wildlife. The group has made strides in reducing their carbon footprint by installing a state of the art water purification system that makes it safe to drink from the tap, eliminating the need for bottled water. Despite being situated in some of the highly sought after locations within Johannesburg and Cape Town, Signature Lux Hotels have developed a daily room rate that is extremely affordable for the millennial traveller. &#x201c;The success of all our new brand hotels is based on having the correct five-star address. As such we have so far purchased five unique properties, Sandton, Cape Town V&A Waterfront, Woodmead, Melrose Arch and Umhlanga."