Known for its diverse and unique fauna and flora, as well as its spectacular mountainous landscapes, natural water features, and inviting forest lands, Mpumalanga has some of the best-known hiking trails in South Africa. Blyderivierspoort hiking trail Experience the beauty of the third largest canyon in the world by hiking the 60km Blyderivierspoort trail. The Blyde River Canyon gives this trail its unique beauty and, apart from spectacular views, diverse vegetation, and varying rock formation features, hikers are able to encounter various wildlife such as baboons and duikers. This trail starts at God's Window and ends at Bourke's Luck. A hike will take you three to five days - depending on whether you&#x2019;ll be hiking the complete trail. #bestview #blyderivierspoort #mpumalangaprovince A post shared by Cyssou Cassan (@cyssoucassan) on Jan 30, 2017 at 10:50pm PST Fanie Botha trail For bird lovers, hiking the Fanie Botha trail is sure to be one of the most unforgettable experiences. While the unique and lush Komatiland forest vegetation leaves hikers awe-struck, the beautiful terrain and water features are sure to catch the attention of both new and seasoned hikers. The 70-metre high Mac Mac and Lone Creek Falls, known for their scenic beauty, sets the Fanie Botha trail apart and gives it a unique natural character. Considered national monuments, experiencing these two waterfalls is a once-in-a-lifetime experience for many hikers. You will need five days to successfully complete the 75km Fanie Botha hiking trail however, you can choose to go as far as you can for two to three days. Another day, another trail! #TrailsofOurLives #FanieBothaTrail #exploring #trailtime #freedom A post shared by Landie (@landiegreyling) on Jan 1, 2015 at 9:57pm PST Queen Rose trail Providing one of the best up and down hiking experiences, the Queen Rose trail terrain is naturally designed to provide spectacular landscape views and interaction with fauna and flora. Located in Barberton, inside the Nelshoogte nature reserve, the Queen Rose trail is one where hikers get to enjoy the beauty of the Montrose and Queens rivers, which define the two sections of the trail. Hike downhill through the 13km Montrose section, starting at the Nelshoogte nature reserve, and descending to catch a glimpse of Alvin falls, and finish this trail walking along the banks of the Montrose river and lush open grasslands. Take the 8km uphill climb in the Queens River section, and enjoy the air and views of an array of indigenous vegetation and riverine forest vegetation in the valley down below. Water pools and a suspension bridge make hiking in this section enchanting. The Queen Rose hiking trail takes three days to complete. To get there, you&#x2019;ll need a reliable vehicle (Car hire South Africa is a cheap and easy option). Coral in the forest #coral #fungi #shrooms #bark #tree #sky #nature #naturelovers #hike #hiking #architecturestudent #studentlife #student #explore #adventure #travel #lifestyle #southafrica #queenrosetrail #trail A post shared by van renssen, ALBERT (@albertfransvr) on Apr 21, 2016 at 12:56am PDT Ama Poot Poot trail Located on a private game farm, the Ama Poot Poot hiking trail starts at Uitvulgt Ponds and ends at the Groot Poot farm house. With its two 19km circular trails, Ama Poot Poot is the best pick if you plan to fish as you hike. Apart from a trout fishing experience, the trail&#x2019;s terrain gives hikers a memorable experience with its waterfalls, water crossings and unique mountain features. The Ribbok route is 13km long and takes hikers down the river, up a hill, and down to a waterfall where they can enjoy the pool down below before going up again. The Trout route will give hikers a memorable water and trout fishing experience. Feeling so alive on the Ama Poot-Poot hike... what an incredible weekend hiking #amapootpoot #lifeforhiking #lowveldhikers #bergloper A post shared by Lowveld Hikers (@lowveldhikers) on Jan 29, 2017 at 9:29am PST Escarpment trail Visit the second-highest waterfall in Mpumalanga, and experience beautiful natural vegetation and rock formation sceneries by hiking the Escarpment trail. The Escarpment trail is 17km long and is located in a nature and game reserve, giving hikers the unique experience of having a glimpse of diverse wildlife as they meander through gorges, sandstone rock formations, and aloe gardens. It takes hikers three to five days to successfully complete this trail.