ProvidusBank was positioned as a smart, innovative bank that values customer partnerships. The essence of the brand, Future Forward Banking, speaks to customised business banking solutions and smart, simple retail solutions. We were tasked with developing the new corporate identity for the bank along with the implementation of the visual language into multiple platforms, ranging from stationery, digital, social media, literature, advertising campaigns, bank cards, signage and environmental design - Branch and ATM. We went on to design and build the bank&#x2019;s website and developed the banking app design. &#x2018;Future Forward Banking&#x2019; comes to life in the structure and content of the ProvidusBank website. The simplistic grid and UI design, such as the quick links panel, guides the user to navigate easily through the site. Information is grouped for users to easily focus their search. Iconography and colour has been used to create a clean, contemporary web environment. Branch interior design, signage and ATM design was developed and all signage built in SA and shipped to Nigeria, to ensure the highest quality product. The signage concept is derived from the horizontal profiles contained within the logo icon. This simple idea forms the basis of the signage concept for exterior pylons, fascias and suspended signage, ATM shroud design along with interior way-finding elements. The retail strategy uses the threshold space to entice and welcome customers into the ProvidusBank environment, then engaging by drawing the customer into the banking hall, where they are met with a series of visual and communication tools along with a number of digital interactive devices. Digital and self-service is the predominant theme, resulting in a modern yet aspirational and approachable environment. In honour of the Future Forward spirit that ProvidusBank embodies, the client tasked Hitchcock Michalski with developing a coffee table book that could encapsulate the essence of their core values and inspire people to change the world around them for the better, in their own way. We called it &#x2018;Pioneering Spirit&#x2019;. A snapshot of history, profiling people who chose to not only walk the road less travelled, but blazed a new path to glory. Deola Sagoe, C & R Eames, Bennet Omalu, Coco Chanel, Chuck Taylor and Theodor Seuss Geisel, along with 44 others, grace the pages with extraordinary design and enlightening stories. Hitchcock Michalski is a Strategic Brand Design agency, committed to solving complex brand challenges from a holistic point of view. We consider the strategic positioning and the visual representation in both two- and three-dimensional formats, creating thought provoking design and opening the door to infinite possibilities. Walter Akpani; CEO ProvidusBank: "We had the opportunity to work with Hitchcock Michalski on the entire branding for Providusbank from conceptual stage to implementation, and the result of what we have is undoubtedly a world class brand identity that speaks volumes for a new institution like ours. We shall continue to retain their expertise to drive our brand identity." Dafe Ivwurie; Head, Brand & Corporate Communications: Hitchcock Michalski has designed for us a world-class brand, one that delivers instant brand equity and customer affinity. However, their strength is also in the depth of their experience, their creativity and the speed with which they approach every brief. I have enjoyed working with the team of professionals who have worked on creating the ProvidusBank brand identity. We believe we made the right choice by choosing Hitchcock Michalski. For more information go to www.hitchcockmichalski.com or contact Managing Director, Fiona Hitchcock at az.oc.imih&#64;anoiF .