Cathay Pacific bag tagPassengers can now print their own bag tags and tag their own luggage at a Cathay Pacific Kiosk machine, where they can also print the number of bag tags they require according to the specified luggage allowance. The Economy Class counters are now known as Bag Drop Counters, and the bag-tagging self-service kiosks are open to both group and individual passengers. &#x201c;Passengers have come to expect modern travel technology to augment their voyages, and this innovative travel process will help eliminate queues and ensure passengers live a life well-travelled,&#x201d; says Rakesh Raicar, country manager for Cathay Pacific Southern Africa and Indian Ocean. &#x201c;This is a first for South Africa, and a new service we are very excited to see rollout.&#x201d; The automated system takes each passenger through six easy steps: 1. Flights: If applicable, a Marco Polo rewards number will be assigned to checked-in baggage by scanning your boarding pass, passport, membership card, or manual information entry. No destination address or secondary documents are needed. 2. Passengers: Select passenger for check-in or the option to print a bag tag. You can also link frequent flyer programme information to your booking. 3. Travel documents: Enter passenger details as per travel document and confirm. 4. Seat changes: Each passenger can select their seat preference from the schematic diagram showing the airline&#x2019;s seating layout, as well as travel companion seats. 5. Safety and security: Dangerous goods, security items, a security notice and baggage restrictions are then acknowledged. 6. Print bag tags: Passengers select the amount of tags needed. After the six easy check-in confirmation questions are completed, bag tags and boarding passes are printed. The process will take around four minutes to complete but could be shorter when boarding passes have been printed at home, in which case the system allows passengers to scan boarding passes and skip steps two to four. Passengers can check-in and print the bag tags at the kiosk 24 hours before the scheduled time of departure, and a Cathay Pacific representative will be stationed in the area to guide and assist passengers on the baggage tag printing and tagging. The self-service bag-tag kiosks have been set up near Cathay Pacific&#x2019;s counters in Terminal B at OR Tambo International Airport. Cathay Pacific will continue to provide dedicated check-in counters for Business Class passengers, Premium Economy Class passengers, and Marco Polo members. All Economy Class passengers will be invited to check in at the kiosk before dropping their bags at a Bag Drop Counter. Travellers ineligible for the new service include: &#x2022; Passengers settling payment at the airport &#x2022; Passengers requiring assistance, medical attention or using a wheelchair &#x2022; Passengers travelling with an infant, unaccompanied minor or child passengers &#x2022; Passengers purchasing an extra seat or with live animals to check-in, &#x2022; Passengers connecting to flights of other airlines which do not have a thorough check agreement with Cathay Pacific.