WTM Africa 2017 opens its floor to attendees with James Vos (Shadow Minister of Tourism), Alderman Ian Neilson (Executive Deputy Mayor of the City of Cape Town), and Carol Weaving (Managing Director of Reed Exhibitions) Setting the scene for the days ahead, prestigious WTM Africa Buyers were treated to a taste of Africa at the Hosted Buyer Welcome Party on Tuesday night, sponsored by GOLD Restaurant. A stimulating and innovative environment The first day of WTM Africa 2017 proved to be very exciting, with travel professionals buzzing around the Cape Town International Convention Centre between meetings and events. Highlights include the WTM Africa 2017 official opening by the host City of Cape Town, cutting-edge discussions in the Travel Tech Theatre, a dedicated programme for local outbound specialists, and key travel trends presented by Euromonitor for the years ahead in the WTM Africa Conference Theatre. Chardonnay Marchesi, general manager of Africa Travel Week, says: &#x201c;There was a great buzz on the floor on the first day of WTM Africa, with buyers, attendees and media meeting throughout the day. The WTM Africa team has worked hard at creating a stimulating and innovative environment that not only encourages connections but facilitates lucrative business meetings for attendees.&#x201d; Outbound destinations including Italy, Russia, Seychelles, Mauritius, France, Reunion, Turkey, Thailand, and India were present to meet and encourage outbound travel specialists to package their countries. Presentations in the Outbound Conference Theatre offered insight into global travel trends pertinent to outbound travel. Two days of not-to-be-missed events still coming up Closing on a high, with two days still to go, Marchesi believes that 2017 will undoubtedly be the best year yet for WTM Africa: &#x201c;We&#x2019;re looking forward to the next two days spent at the Cape Town International Conference Centre. Trade members that would still like to attend are able to register on-site at WTM Africa to ensure they don&#x2019;t miss out on what promises to be an incredible show.&#x201d; The second day of WTM Africa 2017 promises just as many not-to-be-missed events including the African Responsible Tourism Awards, ibtm africa and a focus on the potential of sports tourism in Africa. The Media Speed Networking will offer an exclusive opportunity to exhibitors at WTM Africa 2017 the chance to network with prominent media partners in attendance. Visit WTM Africa 2017 on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Join in the conversation online using the hashtag #WTMA17.