Cash Crusaders, southern Africa&#x2019;s largest second-hand retailer, recently launched their latest TV commercials on South African screens. The popular ads take a humorous look at the stories behind buying and selling used goods. The campaign centres on the idea that "Every Goodbye is a Good Buy for Someone Else", exploring the notion that behind every pre-loved item on Cash Crusaders&#x2019; shelves lies a story. Conceptualised by Cape Town-based creative agency Zoom Advertising, the two ads were written by senior copywriter David Williams and directed by Etienne de Villers of Passing Trains, the genius behind one of South Africa's most loved TV commercials, Klipdrift's Friendly Frikkie, whose signature catchphrase was of course, "Met Eish". Cash Crusaders is one of South Africa&#x2019;s most recognisable brands, and Marketing Manager Alaine Rossouw believes the ads represent what the company stands for. &#x201c;When we briefed Zoom Advertising the message was simple; give us something new, fresh, edgy but with class. We wanted to promote the buying side of our business and remind South African consumers that Cash Crusaders is a friendly, quality, trusted and proudly South African brand. The Goodbye campaign tells the story of letting go of what you no longer need and it instills a sense of security in to the public that selling your unwanted goods need not be a daunting experience,&#x201d; she says. In Cellphone, a couple trying to have a romantic night in are awkwardly interrupted by his old cellphone, complaining that she's still slim and attractive, while in Laptop, a businesswoman can't get her work done because her old laptop keeps trying to get her attention. Williams says he wanted to personify these items and their relationship to their customers. "These belongings were cherished and served their owners loyally for many years. But now that the owners have moved on, they feel a bit neglected,&#x201d; he says. The concept was captured through the lens by De Villiers, who used mood and atmosphere to create the dreamy scenes that led these customers to pay a visit to their nearest Cash Crusaders. In contrast, the bright and inviting Cash Crusaders stores signify new beginnings, both for the old owners and the items looking for a new home. The national television campaign follows on from the humorous direction Cash Crusaders embarked on in 2010, with their memorable ads featuring the beloved stray dog characters voiced by local personalities Travers Solomon and Jody Abrahams. Visit the Cash Crusaders YouTube channel to view these ads as well as exclusive behind-the-scene interviews with the creative team.