Situations like these never favour small businesses that are just beginning to gain popularity in the industry. It poses a threat to their survival. In the business world, it is all about the survival of the fittest. Every business owner needs to be a step ahead of their competitors to break through the market and this can only be done through proper business promotion.Before the internet took over, business owners were left with limited options like the use of flyers, post cards, ads in newspapers and the likes, but today, there are various methods – which keep increasing by the day – to promote your business, whether you’re on a budget or not.1. Online reviewsMost business owners are not exposed to the power online reviews has over their business. One bad online review and lots of customers are lost – this works vice-versa. Of course having good reviews on your website is awesome, but you’ll get a better effect if they’re done on third-party websites people trust, such as Yelp and Google+ – websites that give your business more exposure and are not easily manipulated with fake reviews.Just be sure to let your customers know you have listings on such websites so they can drop their reviews. You can drop a simple call-to-action button that says “view us on Google+” and that’s all, the job is done.2. Bounty programIt’s no news that you can use a reward program to promote your business and increase your customer base and one of the ways is by launching an ICO bounty program. Lots of startups, software developers and websites use it to gain recognition in their industry by compensating their customers – with coins – who perform certain tasks such as reporting bugs, dropping an online review or even referring a customer.Everyone loves freebies so they’ll definitely be encouraged to perform these tasks and even spread the word to their friends and family – which is all the promotion you need anyway. However, it’s one thing for people to get attracted to your business through the ICO bounty program and it’s another thing for them to keep coming back for your products and services if their first time experience is good enough so ensure that they are well attended to as first time customers.3. Social mediaIf people knew the power of social media, everyone would probably own a business or two by now. Social media platforms like twitter, Facebook, Youtube, Instagram, Pinterest, Foursquare and the likes are powerful platforms through which your business can be promoted to a large target audience.It’s way past updating Facebook statuses and liking pictures, past updating your twitter status or liking Instagram pictures, the very few smart ones are now using Facebook – being the largest social network online - to promote their business to a large number of audience – reaching both existing and new customers.Although twitter can be quite intimidating on the first encounter and requires consistent activities to be used effectively, with a little experiment and exploration, you’ll be getting retweets on your business tweets in no time.Another major social media platform people use to promote their business and reach out to like-minds is LinkedIn which is more than just a platform to post resumes, but is also a place to connect with professionals in your field and join groups, creating a network of potential customers.4. CollegesThey might not be your exact target-audience, but college students know how to spread the word like wild fire – so you can rest assured that if you aren’t getting them as customers, you’re getting their friends or family members.You can also advertise in their college papers or use large postcards. Also utilize their open billboards across campus and be sure to replenish them regularly. With little discounts you’ll break through college in no time.You don’t have to be afraid of economic meltdown or other competitors if you know your way around the promotion business. More so, with the four tips above, you just can never go wrong.