If you’re also wondering how to find your ideal business audience online, so that you can approach them and convert as many as possible to clients or customers, here are three proven ways:1. Google searchYes, the good ol’ Google search remains the best way to find your audience online. Since all you’re looking for is where they hang out; the websites they visit, the books they read, their favorite social platforms, and so on, all you have to do is ask Google.For example, a quick search on Google for “online community for pediatricians” gave me several results and good leads I can start my search with. I saw a website that called themselves exactly that: “an Online Community for Pediatricians.” I also saw others like “The Community Pediatrics Training Initiative (CPTI)” and the AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics).You can definitely get active in those communities and attract as many leads or customers as possible by being visible and helpful to members.2. Social media searchOne thing you must know is that almost every conceivable group of audience, professional or otherwise, will definitely be represented one way or another on the various social networking sites available. This might be through a group or a page, or even an account.All you have to do is use the search function of whichever social media platform you choose. If you search for “Writers” on LinkedIn, for example, you’ll find several groups of different kinds of writers, from fiction writers to Christian writers. All you need do is join the groups that consist of your audience and simply network.You can also use the search function on social media to find people of common interest. For example, searching a hashtag like #BabyPhoto on Instagram will give you a list of people following same hashtag – people you can follow up and connect with – and probably convert some into leads or customers in the long run.Generally, social media makes it very easy to find your audience – a lot of them gathered together.3. Facebook Audience InsightsI know I already talked about social media, but Audience Insights is on another level that it deserves its own separate slot on this list. Finding your audience has never been this easy, but more importantly, knowing your audience is taken to an entirely new level with Audience Insights.How does it work?You simply go to the Facebook Audience Insights tool and choose the people you’d love to learn more about; whether everybody on Facebook or people connected to your page.You then enter as much information as you have on your target audience, like their location, age, and every other info you’ve got. Facebook then gives you more relevant information on people within the profile you’ve entered. You’ll learn things like their lifestyle, relationship status and job title, but the part that helps you find these people is the “Page Likes.” You get to know the pages they follow on Facebook.Apart from using this information to fine-tune your adverts so you can reach your audience, in this present age of influencer marketing, information such as this is pure gold!Even if you’re not willing to pay to reach your audience, you can also follow those pages and get yourself noticed and attractive to your potential audience.Now you have three proven ways to find your business audience online. Start using them now and go get those clients.