The programme was launched in 2005 to provide support, education and mentoring for young creatives looking to get industry exposure and launch their careers in design. Emerging Creatives has evolved over the years in an effort to remain relevant within the changing local context. As such, this year&#x2019;s programme will be two-tiered, to have a wider reach and allow more creatives to participate in varying capacities. The selection process is based on the quality and originality of the participants' work, and its potential to be world-class. The selected pieces are then showcased to the general public, and international retail buyers and media at a national exhibition over the course of the Festival. Forty emerging creatives will exhibit their work at the Artscape in Cape Town, the KZNSA Gallery in Durban and Fox Junction in Johannesburg from 1 to 4 March. Mario Nobrega and his detailed, hand-made illustrations; Ashlee Ainsley Lloyd and her beautiful lighting solutions; Mpho Vackier and her sophisticated and modern take on African-inspired furniture; Carien Momsen and her navigating of dual concepts in furniture design; Ivan Brown and his bellwether project Beegin, a dual research and infrastructure initiative that could improve the lives of bees and their keepers; and lastly Tuami Zulu, and his award-winning piece of furniture &#x2013; a design that's somewhere between a bench and a sculpture, are just a select few to exhibit during Design Indaba 2017. For more about this year&#x2019;s class of emerging creatives, read &#x2018;40 rising stars join the creative constellation&#x2019; and &#x2018;Meet the Emerging Creatives Extended Class of 2017&#x2019;. The exhibition will take place in Cape Town, Durban and Johannesburg as part of the Simulcast, and will be open throughout the Festival. The public can also view the exhibition as part of the Design Indaba Nightscape programme each day from 17:30, with a special insert on the First Thursdays calendar. Free entrance for ticketholders in Cape Town (Conference, Simulcast, Nightscape and FilmFest), and simulcasters in Durban and Johannesburg.