Brought together by their musical disciplines, the pool of talented professional electric and acoustic string section respectively features vocals, violinists, viola players, cellists, double bassists, two electric harpists, a pianist and guitarist. All members are industry professionals and collaborate with various local and international artists in their personal capacity. This creates fluidity in sound and performance within the collective, making space for contemporary and innovative production. &#x201c;We strive to reach a common objective, musical excellence and adaptability.&#x201d; &#x2013; Eksteen Setting the standard high, Urban Strings made their debut on the stage of South African Idols Season 11 & 12, performing on seven LIVE episodes since then alongside winners Noma Khumalo, Karabo Mogane and SA favourites such as Somizi Mhlongo, Judith Sephuma, J&#x2019;Something (MiCasa), Donald Moatshe, DJ Tiro and the Top 10 contestants. With a staggering total of 83 million votes cast for season 12, the show has reached new heights and entering its 13th Season. "Ahhh these strings, I just love these strings!" - Gareth Cliff "Urban Strings, a Johannesburg-based string collective, has taken centre stage as South Africa's up-and-coming performing act" - Fourways Review &#x201c;The best in the business!&#x201d; - Tebogo Thekiso a.k.a. ProVerb. MC, rapper, radio presenter and television presenter. The bold composition and versatility of the ensemble is depicted by Urban Strings&#x2019; glam electronica act. The act is described as a fusion of electronica, urban, live strings, neo-jazz and downtempo grooves and appeals to lovers of music right across the board. Far from the traditional form of a string collective, Urban Strings have taken a refreshing approach by pushing boundaries musically as evident in past collaborations with the likes of some South African artists, namely ProVerb, RJ Benjamin, Swing City, Loyiso Bala, The Graeme Watkins Project and Donald Moatshe. For more information and bookings please visit www.urbanstrings.co.za