What&#x2019;s your design claim to fame? I have a YouTube channel where I share tutorials I've made, which teach people to make all sorts of handmade things, from little plushies to revamped clothing. My channel has over 10,000 subscribers and is growing daily. What inspires your designs? I'm inspired to create my tutorials based on things I would like to make - chances are, if I want to make something, someone else wants to know how to do it, too, so I might as well share my techniques and creations. How do you feel about being selected as one of Design Indaba&#x2019;s Emerging Creatives? I'm still a bit shocked that I was selected as an Emerging Creative, as I didn't think that what I do - making tutorial videos - would be recognised as a craft in itself, but I'm very excited to be a part of it. What other local designers do you admire? I love the embroidery of Danielle Clough and the illustrations of both Koba Nieuwoudt and Nanna Venter. How do you see design changing the world for the better? In my case, I hope to be the person I wish I'd had to look up to when I was a child. I was always embarrassed by making things and it made me self-conscious to be proud of my work. I hoped to make people who love creating proud and am excited to be doing just that, and to inspire people who aren't yet creating to start making things, too. We could all use a bit more creativity in our lives. Tell us something that not many people know about you. When I was 12, I got a sewing machine for my birthday, but I was so embarrassed and afraid that the other grade 6s would think it was uncool that I lied and told everyone I got money for my birthday instead. (I'm no longer embarrassed by my machine, though. To this day, it's the best gift I've ever received.) Lauren Dixon-Paver What&#x2019;s your favourite emoji? Probably the pair of scissors, but I'm still holding out for a sewing machine emoji and a sloth emoji. In a movie of your life, who would play you? It'd probably be a toss-up between Aubrey Plaza and Will Arnett. What are you currently working on? I'm currently preparing craft kits for the Emerging Creatives exhibition, but in my breaks I'm embroidering some koi fish for a personal project. What advice would you give to other emerging creatives? Don't ever feel like your work isn't good enough. Whatever you're creating, be proud of it, and never be afraid to show others your work. www.youtube.com/user/TheMsLDP www.behance.net/ldixonpaver To see all of the Design Indaba Emergin Creatives go to www.designindaba.com/festival/emerging-creatives. Design Indaba takes place from the 1-3 March at Artscape in Cape Town. www.designindaba.com