Blogger, Fareed Behardien, says, &#x201c;This feels pretty special! It is somewhat surreal to think that what started out as random ramblings on my fitness journey has grown into something of a brand. To receive recognition as the best blog in SA is just amazing. I owe it to all who have followed my journey and believed in it.&#x201d; Entries with the highest number of votes from the public made it through to the finals. These finalists were then presented to a panel that then adjudicated and selected the overall winners. Commenting on why he believes the blog won these awards, Berhardien adds, &#x201c;I tried to do things my own way and make sure whatever comes out was authentic and not forced. If I thought a post or picture represented the brand, I would post it and was fortunate enough that it was shared. I am also very lucky that I have had the support from Lightlyfunky team to make sure that my site looks good and works.&#x201d; &#x201c;My main aim behind the blog has always been to inspire others through captivating storytelling. So, every year I try to adapt elements of the blog or on social media channels, to complement how people are consuming information. I use myself as a litmus test. If there are blogs or channels doing something that I believe is cool and grabs my attention, I will try and adapt my content in a similar way. &#x201c;One example of this is the length of a post. Over the last couple of years, I have reduced the length of my posts and increased the quality of my photographs. People enjoy looking at pictures and so do I. In the end, it is about conveying the message of seeking adventure to inspire others to leave the couch. We live in an amazing country and the more I can showcase the many adventures on our doorstep, the better.&#x201d; Dabbling in creating video content during 2016, Behardien says that he would love to continue creating more of that. He feels that video content helps bring his vision to life and recently teamed up with filmmaker Zahier Abader, stating that they already have some interesting projects up their sleeves for the year. 2016 was also a big year for Behardien after his short film (together with Ziyaad Solo), Mowbray to Mowbray Ridge, won the Cape Union Mart Adventure Film Challenge and was screened across the country in cinemas. Behardien concludes: &#x201c;I have to thank all my friends and family who were the original readers of my posts and shared and shared and shared, even when the stories were terrible.&#x201d; For more information, go to www.leavethecouch.com and www.sablogawards.com.