ARRCC director Mark RiellyHow does the South African interior design industry fare in the international arena? There are many South African designers working outside the borders of the country, doing a significant amount of work throughout Southern Africa and the Middle East. Our sister company, SAOTA, for instance, has taken the global residential architecture market by storm. ARRCC&#x2019;s inclusion in the list of Top 100 designers in the world also shows that SA companies do not have to take a back seat to international designers. What's distinct about South African interior design? I don&#x2019;t think it is a matter of the design being distinct but rather our approach to design. South Africa is a service-oriented country and we go out of our way to deliver on the client&#x2019;s brief and to exceed it. At ARRCC, we as directors are personally involved in all projects so the client receives real personalised service. Each design is also tailored to the client&#x2019;s very specific needs &#x2013; no &#x2018;one-design-fits-all&#x2019; solution. Why do you think ARRCC was selected as part of the global Top 100 Interior Designers List? We deliver work that is on par with international standards and bring a fresh approach to design. We&#x2019;ve been part of some truly iconic projects globally, attesting to the fact that we are a worthy contender on the global stage. Being included in this list just reiterates this for us again. Our design style is also unique - detailed minimalism using raw, organic material with shape and form, layered with luxury. We make use of flowing, organic shapes - never ordinary. ARRCC has been regularly recognised by the design industry for its work - what sets the studio apart from others in the sector? Working closely with our clients, we distil and transform their briefs to exceed original expectations &#x2013; delivering a personal, one-to-one service. Although our design philosophy is true to ARRCC, we offer clients a flexible solution tailored to their individual preferences. We believe in the spirited crafting of unique interiors that captivate and move and that reflect both client and location. We also have a young team of designers that are inspired and dedicated with amazing energy. Which has been your favourite projects you&#x2019;ve worked on? Barcelona Apartment Having completed a number of luxury residential projects for this client, which include homes in Paris, Dakar, Geneva and Cape Town, the Barcelona apartment is one of our favourites where the design is a blend of African influences combined with contemporary design. The interior has an Afro-contemporary feel which captures ARRCC&#x2019;s global style and is focused on detail and substance. This project was also featured as a finalist in the prestigious Andrew Martin Designer of the Year award. Lume Beauty Atelier This is a unique concept of a high-end fashion hair salon and nail bar combined with a treatment spa. This boutique salon is situated in the middle of Cape Town and is luxury personified with an edgy and contemporary city feel. Here we have created a space where vibrancy and tranquillity co-exist in a carefully planned juxtaposition. Miami Star This is topped to be one of our iconic interiors and is our first project in Miami. Working closely with SAOTA, this project&#x2019;s design has gained a celebrity following which has led to many more projects in Miami and Los Angeles. The villa is located on Star Island, the most sought after real estate in Miami and involved the complete uplifting of the existing house and re-locating it at the entry to the property, to create a separate guest villa and to allow the new house to be built on the water frontage. Could you tell us more about some of the projects you're working on in 2017? ARRCC is currently working on several luxury residential projects in Ghana, Cote d&#x2019;Ivoire, Zimbabwe, Angola, Australia, UAE, the Bahamas, Spain, Moscow, USA and South Africa that will be completed in 2017. The first of a hotel chain, Noom Hotel, has opened its doors in Conakry and two more hotels will be opening this year in other parts of Africa, with more to follow.