Gugulethu CeleWith new anchor Gugulethu Cele at the helm of Gauteng&#x2019;s biggest business radio show, Kaya Bizz, Gugulethu will be leading the conversation on what is next for the Afropolitan business landscape. The show will present local and international business news, entrepreneurship, corporate and investment banking. Since its inception in May 2006 Kaya Bizz has grown from a half-an-hour daily finance update to an hour show bringing compelling business news and market reviews to listeners. "I am excited to be joining Kaya FM and engaging with Afropolitan&#x2019;s on their financial aspirations on an individual as well as business level and helping them get there. Kaya Bizz has proven to be a powerful platform which has allowed Afropolitan&#x2019;s to be more than just observers of the market, as such I am looking forward to building on the foundation that has been set,&#x201d; says Cele. KayaBizz is an established African-focused radio business show and a reliable source of information different features and themes for each day including entrepreneurship and technology. This Kaya FM business stronghold has been ever present in the inception, birthing and growth of the Afropolitan business evolution. Some of the topical features include The SMME Clinic on Mondays that offers advice and resolve issues faced by entrepreneurs especially SMEs and covers personal finance. Many of these small businesses are budding and fruitful enterprises employing a number of employees and have given meaningful and gainful employment to many communities in and around the country. The African continent is the focus of Tuesday&#x2019;s show and technology stories relevant to our listeners. Entrepreneurship is our theme on Wednesdays. As we round up the week on Thursdays we look at business and leisure. Gugulethu is a seasoned finance and business journalist who also works as a senior anchor at CNBC Africa, where daily she engages with c-suite executives, political leaders and captains of industry from across the continent, covering a range of issues from market moving news, current affairs and economic insights. Her previous work experiences include Talk Radio 702 and providing market report updates for Moneyweb and their affiliates, SA FM and Lotus FM. Some of her career highlights include attending and reporting from the 2014 and 2016 Annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland and the 2015 World Economic Forum in Africa. As a leading business content platform Kaya Bizz continues to to empower the black middle class, specifically Afropolitans by making the subject matter accessible to our listeners, bringing expert analysts and top business minds on the show to delve into complex subjects. Kaya Bizz aims to be a transformation agent in our listeners&#x2019; lives as it educates, informs and entertains.