Featuring an all South African cast, the musical will be presented by Showtime Management in association with Lunchbox Theatrical Productions and Nullarbor Productions. It is brought to South Africa in association with BBC First. Origins Priscilla Queen of the Desert The Musical originally opened in Australia in 2006 and after a sell-out two year run, opened on London&#x2019;s West End followed by Broadway in New York. The show continues to wow audiences across the globe with recent return tours to the UK, Australia and New Zealand. It has won awards all over the world, including prestigious Olivier and Tony awards. The plot Priscilla Queen of the Desert is a heart-warming and uplifting tale of three drag artist friends who hop aboard a battered old bus aka &#x201c;Priscilla&#x201d; and go off on the adventure of a lifetime through the Australian Outback, to perform in Alice Springs. On the way they find friendship, love and far more than they ever dreamed of. With a dazzling array of over 500 award-winning costumes, 200 extraordinary head-dresses and a hit parade of dancefloor favourites including I Will Survive, Hot Stuff, Finally, Boogie Wonderland, Go West, Girls Just Wanna Have Fun, and I Love The Nightlife, this wildly fresh and funny musical is a journey to the heart of FABULOUS! Showtime Management&#x2019;s Hazel Feldman says: &#x201c;Priscilla is the ultimate &#x2018;feel-good&#x2019; show. This dazzling musical has all the ingredients for a superb night out: the most wonderful costumes, outrageous glamour, music that will have you dancing in your seat and a funny yet touching storyline. No wonder this show has been such a massive hit from the West End to Broadway and beyond.&#x201d; The proudly South African, exceptionally talented 28-member cast, live band, crew and creative team will give audiences a night of unforgettable performances, nostalgic music and an entertainment experience with all the sparkle to share in Priscilla&#x2019;s &#x201c;fabulousness&#x201d;. Introducing the cast The principal roles will be played by stellar stage, screen and television performers including David Dennis who has achieved prominence in leading roles from classical to contemporary and musical theatre to film and television over the past three decades (Pirates of Penzance, Starlight Classics and movies 10000BC, Winnie and Zambezia); Daniel Buys (Jersey Boys, West Side Story, Saturday Night Fever); Phillip Schnetler (Saturday Night Fever, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz) and veteran actor, James Borthwick (Sunset Boulevard, Evita and over 200 other productions). Additional roles are played by Taryn-Lee Hudson (Singin&#x2019; in the Rain, Jersey Boys), Chantal Herman (Little Shop of Horrors, Evita, Noah of Cape Town) and Candice van Litsenborgh (Annie, Sweeney Todd, Sunset Boulevard) with Candida Mosoma (Lion King, Sister Act, Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat), The Voice of SA finalist, Thembeka Mnguni (High School Musical, Grease) and Durban born Londiwe Dhlomo (Cabaret, Little Shopof Horrors, Puss in Boots) as the three dazzling Divas. The ensemble features a host of multi-talented local performers including Tshepo Ncokoane (Shrek, Janice Honeyman&#x2019;s Pantomime Sleeping Beauty); Zane Gillion (Sister Act, Saturday Night Fever, Dirty Dancing); Michael Fullard (Hot Mikado, Sleeping Beauty, Sneeuwitjie); Michael Wallace (Rocky Horror Picture Show, Cabaret, West Side Story); Craig Hawks (Black Sails television series, My Fair Lady); Ryan Flynn (Rocky Horror Picture Show, The Sound of Music, Jersey Boys), Samuel Hyde (Singin&#x2019; in the Rain SA, Asia and Australia/New Zealand Tour); Henk Opperman (Private Presley, Dirty Dancing the Musical SA and Asia). Fresh new talent includes Dirk Joubert, Jonathan Raath, Nadine Grobbelaar, Donae Brazer, Lourens Obermeyer and Darius Engelbrecht. For the Cape Town season, the role of Benji, the eight year old son of lead role Tick is shared by Jack Fokkens, Jagger Vosloo and Alexander Wallace. Original Priscilla international director, Simon Phillips together with choreographer, Andrew Hallsworth will be coming to South Africa to mount the show together with resident director, Anton Luitingh; musical director, Bryan Schimmel and resident choreographer, Duane Alexander. How to book Tickets may be booked at Computicket by calling 0861 915 8000. Alternatively, visit www.computicket.com or your nearest Computicket service centre. This musical contains some strong language and adult themes, therefore parental guidance is recommended for children under the age of 12. For further information visit www.showtime.co.za or www.montecasino.co.za or www.artscape.co.za. Special hospitality packages as well as Show & Stay packages are available from Montecasino Hospitality & Corporate Events, (011) 3674250 or moc.nusogost&#64;snoitavreser.onisacetnom