Elouise Matthys, PR and promotions manager at GrandWest, says: &#x201c;We are thrilled to host five of South Africa&#x2019;s best as they kick off their national tour. With each comedian bringing their own brand of comedy to the show, the audience can expect diverse, larger than life comedy and loads of stomach clenching laughter.&#x201d; About the comedians Taylor, well known for his role as presenter on the SABCs&#x2019; travel show, Going Nowhere Slowly, is renowned for his fusion of comedy and magic. Over the years, he has performed locally and abroad at major comedy festivals including the Edinburgh Fringe Festival and the Berlin International Comedy Festival. His comedy productions such as Learner Husband, Techni-Coloured and Money&#x2019;s too Tight To Mention have sold out at venues around South Africa. Rated one of South Africa&#x2019;s comedic heavyweights, Rasdien is also a seasoned television actor and also a star of several local films. His characteristic style of understating the social, political, moral and ethical questions facing everyone today in his effortless way has made him a favourite amongst comedy fans. Forged in the fire of the global comedy circuit from London to Hong Kong, Hilton is a versatile and dynamic comedy icon. For more than 30 years, he has become known as a gentleman comic and a master craftsman with flawless timing, an unpredictable hairline and a gaze that doesn&#x2019;t miss a thing. For over 17 years, multi talented comedian, Lediga has entertained audiences in the live space, on the small screen, on the big screen and from behind the scenes as a producer. During his career, he has graced the stages of major comedy events in South Africa including the prestigious Cape Town International Comedy Festival where he won the People&#x2019;s Choice Award in the company of acclaimed comedians from all over the world. Gola, the host of the twice Emmy nominated Late Nite News with Loyiso Gola (LNN), has been enthralling live and television audiences with his brand of refreshingly frank and outspoken comedy for over a decade. From performing with the Cape Comedy Collective, he has evolved into a comedy phenomenon performing all over the country as well as appearing on television, radio and the big screen. Tickets are on sale at Computicket and range in price from R170 to R300 per person.