 HONGQI ZHANG 123RF.com&#x201c;Energy is fundamental to the economic development of every country, driven by population increase and industrialisation, with a landscape of depleting fossil fuels and climate change,&#x201d; says Claire O&#x2019;Connell, the event director of the Future Energy power portfolio at event organiser Spintelligent. Exciting opportunities She continues: &#x201c;The energy industry is changing and so is the role of the traditional utility. This shift is creating enormous and exciting opportunities: we are seeing more IPPs, more distributed generation, more micro grids and more off grid solutions and it is not just on a commercial scale, we are seeing these changes at community level too. As the technology behind renewable energy evolves, more and more consumers will cut their ties with incumbent utilities and become their own source of power.&#x201d; She adds: &#x201c;In the next 10 years we can expect significant advances in generation technology and storage as well as better energy management and increased efficiencies. Most of the continent is experiencing these changes in some form and with abundant natural energy resources and a general drive towards building environmentally cleaner energy, is creating an increase in foreign direct investment into the region. With our Future Energy events we will continue to stimulate discussions and bring together the players and movers in the industry to shape and develop this continent.&#x201d; New Future Energy events Future Energy East Africa, formerly EAPIC, will take place in November in Nairobi this year. The 2017 venue will facilitate networking for some 400 regional conference delegates, and a full programme of events addressing the challenges and opportunities of the industry including country spotlights, industry awards, an East African Utility CEO Forum, and technical demonstrations and cases studies from more than 100 international suppliers. Also taking place in November in Lagos, Future Energy Nigeria has evolved from the West African Power Industry Convention (WAPIC). This energy conference and expo addresses the Nigerian power crisis through industry connectivity and creative solutions. Future Energy Uganda is a two-day Ugandan project investment forum and exhibition taking place in Kampala from 13-14 September and will showcase projects that are in the pipeline. The forum discussions will include policies, tax and rebates, project briefings, ROIs and project implementation. The event will provide a platform for investors, government and the private sector to discuss and network in support of the Ugandan power expansion plans and 2030 vision. Future Energy Central Africa (formerly iPAD Cameroon Energy Infrastructure Forum) is a regional strategic gathering from 2-3 October in Yaound that will allow neighbouring Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Sao Tome and Principe to share their expertise, project developments and plans in order to facilitate regional grid integration.