It is the brainchild of Siya Metane, well known in the music industry and urban lifestyle market as Slik or Slikour. His popular SlikourOnLife digital platform shares information on urban culture and music, features videos and interviews to give substance to the music and musicians who may not have access to traditional platforms, and provides an accessible place for their videos. &#x201c;The crux of the idea behind the conference is to create a space where both creative worlds meet and to initiate dialogue. Culture is art imitating life and great marketing should reflect consumers&#x2019; wants, needs and aspirations, ultimately dictating the pattern of their lives. &#x201c;These are two significant worlds of influence &#x2013; the one uses organic creative insight and the other manufactures creative strategies. They both share values of reach, awareness, commerce and longevity in the market. It makes sense for leaders and influencers in both these worlds to get together and explore ways to enhance their positions,&#x201d; says Metane. Speakers Several high profile cultural influencers will be a part of the panel of speakers at the conference, such as DJ Dimplez, Osmic and Ambitious Records, AKA, Refiloe Ramogase, Thabiso Khati, Jessica Motoung, Minnie Dlamini and others. A speaker from an agency will chair discussions and speak on the generic definition of marketing and the impact of brand influencers. The workshop will explore what South African culture wants, brand collaborations that affirm South African or African culture, ways to find the middle ground between brands and culture objectives, understanding cultural trends that need brands&#x2019; infrastructure as well as socially aware campaigns that inspire and impact target markets. It will unpack brand and culture processes, building accountable relationships, trust and respect, insight into brands and how culture can align with a brand strategy, and insight into culture and how brands can align with the cultural society&#x2019;s needs or interests. Last year, he produced a documentary called Brands doing dope sh*t, which gave credit to brands that contribute positively to the urban music culture &#x2013; connecting with the culture in a way that ensures a win-win situation where both the culture and the brand are strengthened. The one-day conference will cost R3,300 per delegate excluding VAT. To book, call Celeste Whitaker +27 (0) 11 467 4935 or book online.