 Paolo Gianfrancesco via 123RFIncentive travel programmes making a comeback As the world economy swings upward, and incentive travel programmes continue to make their slow but steady comeback, new incentive travel trends have taken hold this year. These trends reflect the changing demographics of the workforce as well as the new economic realities that face businesses on a global scale. The market has moved beyond the rhetoric of the past few years, event and incentive planners are becoming more focused on having programmes that deliver more value overall. Redefining luxury This year the LTA showcase will mainly highlight intimate meetings, bush style conventions and conferencing in breath taking natural settings. Open skies allow for creativity, heritage and culture; taking executives back to basics. The authenticity and landscape of Limpopo energises those on incentive travel. Traditional notions of luxury no longer apply to incentive travel. Luxury needs to be something much more authentic for clients these days," says Matlala. "It's doing what the locals would do. It's about luxury in the sense that you can't organise it on your own - that's what people are defining as luxurious today." A luxury experience might be something like having a private dinner in the middle of the bush, or breakfast on an iceberg with a surprise encounter with whales, according to Matlala. "The inspiration and meaningfulness of unique activities must align with the local culture, theme, and destination." Limpopo offers luxury bespoke experiences that are matched only by a few and surpassed by none in the country. The LTA invites you to host your next intimate executive meeting at Mapungubwe, which is also known as the ancient city in Africa. Its highly sophisticated inhabitants traded gold and ivory with China, India, Persia and Egypt many centuries ago. Groups forging their own paths Rather than adhere to traditional incentive travel components such as golf and spa, many groups are opting to forge their own paths in creating programmes that work best for their attendee mix. Come spot the Big Five from a 4X4 or guided game-tracking on foot to get the open air experience of untamed Africa at its wildest. Accommodation options range from five star private game lodges, public rest camps and tented safari camps. Groups can also come up close and personal with hippos and crocodiles on the banks of the mighty Letaba River.