The forum was chaired by Louise Pelser (SAFLEC) and the vice chair, Paul Alvarez (PwC). Coetsee guided the attendees through a number of key initiatives that TPT currently have underway to stimulate growth of the economy, supporting regional integration and creating capacity ahead of demand. The impact these initiatives have and will continue to have on businesses in South Africa was also unpacked, along with the organisation's commitment to further improve supply chain efficiency and reducing the cost of doing business. One of the lesser known facts is that South Africa has been rated by the World Bank as 20th in the world in terms of the Logistics Performance Index. Reigniting growth in the economy In addition, Coetsee unwittingly touched on a theme that seemed to resonate within Pravin Gordhan&#x2019;s budget speech, which also took place last week Wednesday, regarding the importance of large SOE&#x2019;s like Transnet to reignite growth in the economy. Coetsee explained, &#x201c;If you look at the volume of trade that the continent does with itself, about 18% of Africa&#x2019;s total trade is done within the continent. From Rob Davis&#x2019;s speech earlier last week - If you look at South Africa; 29% of our export cargo is sold to other African countries and President Zuma&#x2019;s plan for radical economic transformation includes the integration of South Africa&#x2019;s strategies and policies across the existing regional communities. So there is a much bigger awakening and awareness around the role that South Africa &#x2013; and Transnet for that matter &#x2013; needs to play on the rest of the continent.&#x201d; Forum goals and objectives According to the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the goals and objectives of this forum include promoting Durban as an effective trading hub; developing a comprehensive understanding of the policy environment, mechanisms and special purpose vehicles, promoted and resourced by the DTI and EDTEA and expressed as the Provincial Growth and Development Plan, clusters, innovation hubs and corridors for development; as well as to promote export trade through the DCCI TPT Exporter of the Year Awards that takes place annually. Additional meeting dates are scheduled to take place on 12 April, 7 June, 23 August and 18 October 2017*. *Please note these are provisional dates which are subject to change.