Amplify uses Newsroom's extensive native reach - like the in-feed units or content recommendations, to help brands onboard potential buyers to a new, more relevant and less interruptive consumer journey. 85% of consumers today are considering articles, expert reviews or videos, the most influential form of online media when evaluating a tech purchase such as autos or consumer electronics. By contrast, only 33% trust family and friends for those decisions and just 6% would be influenced by advertising. (Source) "We see a major disconnect around the timing and overall relevance of advertising - that is most of the time inadequately delivered along the consumer decision journey. More often than not, we make the assumption that great journeys start with great ads, while they in fact start with a thoughtful consideration stage that's almost entirely based on 3rd party content." declared Mihai Fanache, CEO at The Newsroom. Amplify enables brands to walk consumers through their earned media and automatically segment responding audiences into the platform's proprietary DMP. Brands can immediately enable further delivery against the engaged audiences with communication that's mindful of the amount of information consumers have already absorbed. The platform features extensive connectivity in the RTB eco-system, with over 120 Supply Side Platforms integrated, representing more than 95% of all South African display, native and video inventory announced for real time transactions. "Simply put - we support brands in introducing potential customers to their products with the voices of professional journalists, bloggers or brand enthusiasts. We then nudge customers towards a purchase with advertising optimally-timed within their consumer journey." declared Carl Jordan, South Africa's country director at The Newsroom. NWS Amplify has been in private beta with a number of automotive clients across Newsroom's global markets for over six months - and results proved to support the creation of a stand-alone product, within Newsroom's offering. "We're excited to be one of the first partners for Amplify in South Africa as we've been working closely with The Newsroom and our clients to fine-tune the specifics of this offering" - declared Jaco Lintvelt - Head of Amnet Sub Saharan Africa. Amnet is the programmatic buying function of Dentsu Aegis Network specialising in planning buying and analysis of audience data for context. The Newsroom has announced its presence in South Africa in May 2016 and has since partnered with leading publishing groups - like Times Media Group, Yahoo, Burn Media, Bizcommunity and Kagiso Media - to build the first scalable native offering, designed specifically for the South African market. For more information - please contact: Carl Jordan - moc.sdaegrahc&#64;nadroj.lrac Irina Morosanu - moc.sdaegrahc&#64;unasorom.aniri