We like being able to walk around Rosebank and the proximity of the inter connecting malls, The Firs, The Zone and The Mall of Rosebank. The Crowne Plaza Johannesburg - The Rosebank is geared to the business traveller with many useful elements such as quiet-zone floors where a real effort is made by management to limit staff movement and activity between 9pm and 10am. Crowne Plaza exterior Although a small thing, I loved that instead of the usual blank A6 note paper one finds at a desk and next to the phone, they have useful A4 pads with to-do lists and other productivity tools in the margin. There is also an excellent lamp at the desk and a selection of desk-height plugs and adaptors. We were in a fifth floor suite which also had a comfy couch, coffee table and arm chair. The suite has one of those replica classic Arco lights which adds an immediate glamour to the space. The bedroom, accessed through dark tinted glass doors, has an open bathroom with double vanities and those super built in mirror lights that give all the illumination one may want, but none of the tired saggy eyes that overhead lighting elucidate. The tub is large and in the centre of the bathroom, but the walk-in shower is the real hero of this space along with the private WC. Although we missed having an espresso machine in the room, they did offer excellent ground coffee and a plunger along with complimentary water. Although the hotel&#x2019;s public spaces have quirky seating that might remind one of a burlesque club and furniture that might have been designed for Alice in Wonderland it all works well to deliver a lively energy. By contrast, the rooms decor is monochromatic in theme, masculine and smart. Crowne Plaza Club Room With emphasis on a good night&#x2019;s sleep, there was even an Elemis Sleep Advantage room spray as part of the turn-down service. A thoughtful touch and an improvement on the usual chocolates etc. Although graded four stars you will receive five star service, especially if you are received by Alwyn who I remembered from the then Orient-Express Westcliff. And, the hotel is so positioned that the Mall is to your left and the hottest ticket in Rosebank, Marble Restaurant and the strip that includes the Everard Read Gallery and plethora hipster burger bars and decor shops, is a few paces around the corner. Crowne Plaza Executive Suite The Circle Bar is a great meeting place. Look out for the quirky Venetian glass details. There is an intimate rim-flow pool and recliners on the outside deck which also provide shaded seating and access to the meeting rooms. The outside area is easily reached from the gym but the good news is that Virgin Active members have a health club just around the corner. The extensive breakfast buffet has a deli section with glass jars of yogurt smoothies, Bircher muesli along with a waffle station and one of those Italian meat slicers next to trays of hams and salamis. I was impressed that even espresso-based coffees were included in the breakfast buffet price. There is an excellent Amani Spa on the premises. As the Crowne Plaza brand is dedicated to those travelling on business, the business-related facilities like Club lounges, in-room work stations, conferencing rooms, free wifi and so on make sense. I mostly liked the great quality sleep - the most effective business productivity tool in my arsenal. www.CrownePlaza.com