Holding the Fort Being a former German colony, there are still a variety of these references within the country. Alte Feste (Old Fortress) is the oldest building in the city, and plays home to the National Museum of Namibia. Tours are on offer for those interested in the years of history this country holds. Come Dine with Hilton All day, every day dining at Ekipa restaurant at the Hilton Windhoek. The restaurant boasts a world class kitchen that serves buffet and a la carte dishes. Ekipa also has its very own meat-aging cabinet for exquisite cooked-to-order cuts. Become one with nature The Klein Windhoek Valley offers majestic views of the city and the vegetation in the outlying areas. A walk in the valley will only take about an hour and is suitable for all ages and fitness levels. All&#x2019;s fair in love and war Discoverers don&#x2019;t have to travel very far to see Romanesque Revival architecture. Christuskirche (Christ Church) is a historic Lutheran church and landmark located in Windhoek. The Church was originally known as the Church of Peace, because it was built post the war between the Germans, the Khoikhoi, Ovambo and Herero. No man&#x2019;s land Kolmanskop (Coleman's hill) is another exciting place to visit. This is a ghost town located in the Namibian desert, 10 kilometres inland from the port town of L deritz. It was once a small but very rich mining village, but the town declined after World War I when the diamond-field slowly exhausted and was ultimately abandoned in 1954. It is now a popular tourist destination. A walk on the wild side The Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF), located in Namibia, has a mission to be the world&#x2019;s protector of Cheetahs&#x2026; Dog and cat lovers alike, are sure to enjoy a visit to see these magnificent creatures and see the great work the CCF are doing. Namibia currently has the largest and healthiest population of cheetahs left in the world Panoramic views and cocktails There isn&#x2019;t a better way to enjoy sundowners, than with an amazing view of the beautiful Windhoek. The Hilton Windhoek Skybar offers guests a range of cocktails, while they watch the sun set over stunning panoramic views of the city. Prost Being a predominantly German country, of course they would host one of the biggest beer fests there is, Oktober Fest. There&#x2019;s no better way to become one with the culture, than joining in at this annual event. Expect German food, traditional games and activities, world-class entertainment and lots of German beer. If there aren&#x2019;t any souvenirs, did you really go there? Windhoek is home to the Namibian Craft Centre. Here, one can find original, handmade leatherwork, basketry, pottery, jewellery and needlework. Namibia can be felt in the artwork, serving as an ideal reminder of the beautiful country.