(c) Daniel Ernst - 123RF.com Here are some great tips for running a successful text messaging campaign: 1. Obtain consent Many marketers just collect random numbers and send out marketing messages expecting a response. However, sending unsolicited messages will only annoy recipients and mess the reputation of your business. Therefore, the first thing you need to do is get people to sign up to receive your marketing messages. You should also make it easy for subscribers to opt out when they don&#x2019;t want to continue receiving your texts. When sending messages, be sure to start with the name of your business. This way, your recipients will not confuse your messages for spam. 2. Send at the right time Timing is very crucial when it comes to SMS marketing. Unlike email, text messages are usually read within less than five minutes of being sent. Therefore, you need to ensure that your marketing messages reach customers or prospects just when they are about to make a buying decision. For instance, fast food outlets should send out promotional messages to consumers just before lunch hour. The good news is that SMS scheduling tools such as 'SMS Scheduler' and 'Schedule SMS: Send it later' can make your work much easier. 3. Add a call to action Your text messages should be accompanied with a powerful call to action (CTA). The CTA could be a URL to your website, a phone number or a short code. This will give your audience an idea of what you want them to do next. By calling the number or visiting your website, they might just end up buying your products or services. If you are planning an event, visitors can click on the URL to find more details. 4. Use basic language If your texts are going out to people of different cultures, ages and backgrounds, keep your messages as simple as possible. Avoid using abbreviations and acronyms which could confuse your recipients. Don&#x2019;t use too many emoticons or exclamation marks. You should also avoid using caps, except for key words like 'sale', 'discount' or 'offer'. Keeping your messages friendly, concise and professional will enhance your chances of success. 5. Make it exclusive For an SMS marketing campaign to be successful, you need to make your messages as exclusive as possible. The information your subscribers are getting should not be something that is readily available elsewhere, like your Facebook page, blog or website. When people realise the value of the messages they're receiving, they're more likely to take action. 6. Analyse your results You can use tools such as Google Analytics to monitor the progress of your SMS marketing campaigns. Some of the metrics you need to keep track of are open rates and the number of clicks on links. You can test different message styles and timings to find out what works best.