This show even did what few other shows managed to do the past year - it increased its visitors. From the get-go the show set the pace for a stunning event. The beautiful entrances had visitors mesmerised with hundreds of live flowers and quirky Jozi facts. In the words of one of the visitors, &#x201c;This is definitely the most beautiful HOMEMAKERS Expo yet. I loved the entrances and all the special interest pockets. There was a great variety of suppliers. I feel so inspired!&#x201d; This year the expo expanded on its food and wine offering and The Market was abuzz with people tasting wines, buying treats and snacking away. A 20-metre bare wall was slowly transformed over four days into an awestruck giant piece of art. Street artists Damn Vandall, Zesta and Giffy showed off their talent and skills with a spray can at the I Love Jozi Graffiti Feature giving visitors a behind-the-curtain glimpse of this art form. Builders Warehouse was once again a highlight with a theatre programme that all visitors enjoyed and a very busy interactive area that had visitors queuing to take part in the fun. The Workshop enjoyed an overwhelming response to the SawStop Demonstration and expert advice was available to any guy or gal wanting to test-drive some of the nifty products on display. The Overall Exhibitor Stand Award winner was The Kitchen Studio who built one of the most beautiful kitchens ever seen at the show. The stand offered versatile options of kitchen tops, cupboards and showcased the highest standard of craftsmanship with a flawless installation. The other award winners were: Gold: Geberit SA, Ashley Furniture Homestore, Patio Warehouse, Living Green Landscapes, Cybele Gardens, Flyscreen Supreme & Shutter Supreme, Masons Furniture for Siemens, Tectonic Stone and Totem Kitchens. Silver: Kitchen Delights, Plantation Shutters Co., Floors Direct, ISOboard Thermal Insulation, Latitude Tile & D cor, GrapeDoor, Womag, Liebherr, The Colonial Stone and Eva-Last. Bronze: SA Washline, The Tile Gallery, DnA Designs, Designer Pool Covers, Wedgit SA, Macalli Inspired Living, Gutter People, Curves and Bevels Cupboard Supply, Insulpro, Trellidor, Top Carpets & Floors, Display Wine, Kitchen Unlimited and Veti by Major Tech. With all the new maker exhibitors at the show, a special prize category was created, the Artisan Awards. Here Dismoi walked away with third place, The Coote and Wench Design Company with second prize and Flaunt Concepts with the first prize. The next HOMEMAKERS Show is held in Port Elizabeth from 22 to 25 June at the Boardwalk. Visit the expo gallery on Facebook.