Promote the brand When it comes to marketing and the promotion of your brand, the internet will be a vital tool. Clients want to be able to see what you do and what others think of your business, they can do this through your website and through customer feedback which can be left on your own site and other review sites. Staying competitive It is vital that you stay up to date with your competition and you can bet your bottom dollar that they have an online presence. If you don&#x2019;t want to get left behind by the competition then you need to invest money into the creation of an online profile. Building your client base The added exposure that an online presence will give you will contribute greatly to you an the business making more sales and ultimately, more money. When people have a problem or need a service or product, the first thing that they do is grab their phone or their computer and hit the search engine. You can attract thousands of new customers through having an online presence and your clients will also be able to spread the word about your company with ease. Accessibility The internet is never not on and it is your 24 hours a day, seven days a week showroom where you can display your business to people from all over the Word. Failure to have an online presence will limit your opportunities to grow your clients and expose your business. Build trust One of the best ways to build trust with your clients is through the presence of your business online, especially when it comes to social media. Customer loyalty is hard to come by but if you are active on social channels and can directly engage with your customers then you will significantly improve your chances of gaining customer loyalty and trust. Marketing options When you have a presence online you open up far more ways in which to market your product or service. Online marketing techniques are one of the biggest ways of driving business and without a presence you will not have the option to employ these techniques. SEO, email marketing, social media campaigns and PPC advertising are great ways of drumming up business and building your brand but they all rely on you having an internet profile in order for them to work. Stop losing out on these business opportunities and get your business online.