The PDC team. Image supplied. Congratulations on securing seven huge new clients! What is the secret to your winning recipe? Our solutions driven approach to our client&#x2019;s communication challenges, our non-traditional approach to conceptualising creative campaigns and holding ourselves accountable for producing meaningful results on a monthly basis. Going forward, how do you intend to build on these relationships? Our aim is always to grow our service offering for every client by proving to them that what we do is so much more than just traditional PR, it&#x2019;s more about a full below-the-line offering that can be utilised as and when needed accordingly to their evolving business needs and budget parameters. What are your plans for rest of the year? Consolidate and focus on showing value and PR measurement across our full portfolio of clients in order to retain the clients we&#x2019;re so fortunate to represent in the current economic climate, whilst holding thumbs for a number of other new business &#x2018;irons in the fire&#x2019;. We&#x2019;ll also be focusing on promoting our media training and social media workshop offering, as well as our event management capabilities. What have been the most effective marketing initiatives you've used to promote your business? I&#x2019;ve always found that the best marketing of our services has always been via positive referral from clients and media who have worked with us. That, and winning &#x2018;Best Small PR Consultancy of the Year&#x2019; for 2014 and 2016 have been all the marketing we&#x2019;ve done to date. #Prisms2017 winners: Positive Dialogue CommunicationsThe 2017 Prism Awards took place at a ceremony at The Park House of Events on 6 May 2017 and I chatted to some of the gold winners...By Juanita Pienaar 16 May 2017 What successful tool would you pass on to young people wanting a career in marketing/PR? Tracy Jones, PDC's MDWhat you are prepared to put in, is what you&#x2019;ll get to take away from every experience. Be prepared to work. Hard. And draw insights and learnings from everything that you&#x2019;re exposed too. Use every opportunity to learn, grow and have an understanding of the myriad of things out there in our exciting industry. The PR landscape is changing and evolving so fast that you need to be able to thrive under pressure, think on your feet, and carry a problem solving toolbox under your arm, in order to service multiple clients on a daily basis across different communication channels. And lastly, life is short so do what you love. What would you recommend potential marketing and PR students gain more insight into? Whilst you&#x2019;re learning the &#x2018;theory&#x2019; in college you should also get busy researching your industry. Research the agencies and their leaders that are doing great work. Follow them on social media. Take an interest in marketing and PR industry awards both locally and internationally, the winners and more importantly the case studies of what made them win. Learn from them. Stay current with industry trends, attend workshops, network yourself, take on an intern position where no job is too big or small. Draw inspiration and learning in like a sponge. So that hopefully, when you graduate you&#x2019;ll be able to hit the ground running. What do you think sets Positive Dialogue apart from its competitors? We are an award-winning agency as the exciting frontier of new generation PR. We help our clients understand the ways that PR has radically changed. As media has diversified and new channels have proliferated we have evolved to become channel neutral, as comfortable with hosting a press briefing as we are with producing video and webinars. We&#x2019;re a team of specialised professionals who help clients move beyond out-dated modes of communication to find the different fragments of their target audiences where they most enjoy being found. In short, what differentiates us is that we are not traditional PR practitioners, but rather creators of credible content who are able to deliver tailored campaigns that arouse interest, touch hearts, educate minds, encourage change and inspire action.