Luckily there has been a recent introduction of local food delivery services that help take some of the admin out of home food preparation and inspire you to get creative in the kitchen. New local start-up Gutsy Green is one such service. #DesignMonth: What's in your lunch box?FOODwelove aims to change how offices eat by offering desk jockeys the option to have a healthy and wholesome lunch delivered in a cleverly designed box, straight to their desk...By Cari Coetzee 20 Feb 2017 Chef designed recipes straight to your door Gutsy Green delivers fresh and free-range ingredients as well as detailed chef designed recipes in perfectly portioned meal kits straight to your office or home door. This cuts down on possible food wastage and frustrating hunts for truffle oil or coconut shavings as everything you need is included in one handy delivery box. Last week I tested out three meals from Gutsy Green. It&#x2019;s super easy; you sign-up, pick your options and meals and pay via their website. They offer a selection of single, double and four person meals for two to three meals a week at a reasonable cost of R305 &#x2013;R892 weekly. Their recipe choice is extensive and offers a wide variety of meat, vegetarian and low carb options. It took me ages to decide which three dishes to go for as everything sounded so tempting. However as I am making a concerted effort to eat vegetarian during the week I settled for two veggie options and one meat dish. (Just couldn&#x2019;t resist, and you know for a balanced review). #GreenMondaySA: Eat less meat, save the worldSince watching Cowspiracy and after taking part in the 2015 Greenpop Festival of Action in Zambia, I have been a lot more conscious about what I consume, particularly meat and dairy, industries which are the number one culprits when it comes to environmental damage.By Ruth Cooper 6 Apr 2017 Three nights of yum Night one we dined on a creamy butternut risotto with sage. Night two we abandoned herbivore habits and had sirloin with mashed potato parmesan cakes, green beans and mushrooms (delicious) and final night went super healthy with baked coconut rice and wilted Asian veg. So, tasty and one recipe that has definitely given me ideas for future plant based meals. Mhhhm butternut & sage risotto! Testing out @gutsygreen's healthy recipe & ingredient delivery service. Full review on @bizcommunity soon. A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on Jun 27, 2017 at 9:47am PDT The recipes were easy to follow and it was such a pleasure know I had the exact amount of everything I needed. Other delicious sounding options include pork dim sum balls, lentil curry, sweet sesame chicken, bacon and red pepper pasta, spicy chorizo paella, tomato and baby spinach gnocchi and so much more. #Drool. Who doesn't love Dim Sum! We do and we're making them hot and fresh today! Stuffed with spicy sweet chilli pork and served with stir fried red cabbage & peaches! &#x2764;&#xfe0f;&#xfffd;&#xfffd; A post shared by Gutsy Green (@gutsygreen) on Jun 21, 2017 at 5:09am PDT To free up some me time head to the Gutsy Green website to test out their meal-kits.