School SleepOut ambassadors. Image supplied.Addressing cyber-bullying, entrepreneurship According to a global study conducted by YouGov, which surveyed almost 5,000 teens aged 13 to 18 in 11 countries, including South Africa, 24% of South African teens had experienced online bullying. Aside from bullying, the South African school system also has a long way to go in order promote entrepreneurship in our future leaders. Statistics South Africa recently released the latest results of its Quarterly Labour Force Survey for the first quarter of 2017. Youth (ages 15-34 years) unemployment rate increased to 38.6%; a testament to the lack of start-up skills in the country. Many are calling for a more focused approach to building an entrepreneurial spirit in our youth. Linked to the philosophy of The School SleepOut Event, which sees learners and teachers spend a night outdoors on their school grounds, gaining empathy for vulnerable communities, the publication will address bullying and entrepreneurship. TopicsHow empathy can combat bullying Which schools have outstanding community outreach programmes Teenagers that started businesses that give back Why volunteering is good for your mind and body Coolest careers you can do &#x2013; that also help save the world What funding is available for youngsters with ideas that could bring about positive changeThere are also inspirational videos to watch and a printable July calendar, with ideas on how to give back, every day of the month. &#x201c;It is difficult to ignore the crisis taking place in our schools, as learners battle with bullying and a lack of options to foster their entrepreneurial skills. KIDlanthropy was created to open their eyes to the ideas of volunteering, philanthropy and empathy, in the hopes it will foster kindness among teens &#x2013; and give them a sense of purpose and excitement for a future where they could run a business that helps other people,&#x201d; says KIDlanthropy editor, Kim Garner. For more information, click here. Friends of The School SleepOut, Community Hours and d6 Education distribute it. It can also be embedded on your digital platforms.