Source: Marriott International. Sheraton Cairo was the first Sheraton hotel in Africa and has been a local icon since it s opening in 1971The hotel emerges after extensive renovation to reveal a distinct and vibrant aesthetic with modern interiors, refreshed public spaces and innovative and revitalised dining concepts. Perched on the West Bank of the River Nile, it enjoys a prime location, in the heart of the city, just steps away from the Egyptian Museum, Cairo Opera House and the iconic 70 story Cairo Tower. With signature brand experiences and the warmth of the familiar hallmark Sheraton service that goes above and beyond to make every guest experience meaningful, the hotel is poised to quickly regain its glory of yesteryears. &#x201c;Sheraton Cairo was our first Sheraton hotel in Africa and has been a local icon since it&#x2019;s opening in 1971,&#x201d; said Alex Kyriakidis, president and managing director, Middle East and Africa, Marriott International. &#x201c;The reopening of this hotel is a milestone in our journey as it not only showcases our transformation efforts around the Sheraton brand but also reinstates our commitment to Egypt as a strategic growth market.&#x201d; A harmonious blend of modern design, warmth and comfort The hotel&#x2019;s 326 fully renovated rooms and suites feature a harmonious blend of modern design with a warm palette offering unmatched comfort and the Sheraton Signature Sleep Experience. Sheraton Club rooms offer exclusive access to the Sheraton Club Lounge, a private space located on the 26th floor providing spectacular views of the city where guests can enjoy complimentary breakfast, drinks, and snacks during the day. Leisure facilities include an extensive fitness center with cutting-edge equipment available 24 hours a day for in-house guests, a luxurious pool, and a fully equipped wellness center. Culinary voyage Six distinctive restaurants and bars create an enriching culinary voyage and offer authentic and unique experiences. El Mawardia Depuis 1985, a social institution on the west side of the Nile for over 30 years, a place to see and be seen, is back in a new avatar showcasing local cuisine paired with international favorites complemented by a thoughtfully cultivated assortment of coffees, teas, beverages as well as unique shisha flavors. Giannini&#x2019;s, the first New York Italian style restaurant in Egypt, explores the joy of communal dining as the acclaimed chef prepares special dishes that will surely electrify the most refined taste buds. Inspired by mystical voyages and the many magical lands and travels that have found their place in Egyptian heritage, Rawi features undiscovered pairings of local ingredients and regional Arabic cuisine that lend their unique flavor and distinct identity to the menu at breakfast, lunch and dinner. Guests can look forward to starting the day with fresh coffee, pastries and savories served at the Bridge Caf located in the hotel&#x2019;s upper lobby, before moving to the Pool Bar to enjoy the fun atmosphere and eclectic mix-and-match menu, followed by an evening of music and classic cocktails at Studio70. Fully equiped for business With more than 1,400sqm of dedicated and unparalleled meeting space, Sheraton Cairo Hotel & Casino features a lavishly appointed ballroom, 13 meeting rooms and a fully equipped business center, all with state-of-the-art facilities and seamless connectivity through high-speed Wi-Fi. The hotel provides both choice and flexibility together with thoughtful and personalised services making it an exclusive option for large-scale business meetings, social events, weddings or even smaller intimate gatherings. &#x201c;For over 45 years, generations upon generations of visitors have marveled at the breathtaking sights surrounding the iconic Sheraton Cairo Hotel and experienced its warm and welcoming service," said Hans Joerg Kreitner, general manager, Sheraton Cairo Hotel & Casino. &#x201c;We are committed to going above and beyond to relive that promise as we begin a new journey that stems from this rich and cherished legacy.&#x201d; Marriott International currently operates 18 hotels in Egypt across sven brands including JW Marriott, The Ritz Carlton, Le M ridien, Marriott Hotels, Renaissance, Sheraton, and Westin. It also has two additional hotels under advanced development including Mena House and The St. Regis Cairo.