Abey Mokgwatsane, new managing executive for brand and communications at Vodacom.Since then, it's been quite an exciting couple of weeks for Mokgwatsane but I caught up with him recently to recap and briefly chat about his departure, what lies ahead and how he feels about the move. How do you feel leaving Ogilvy & Mather SA? Ogilvy & Mather has been my home for 5-and-a-half years, I&#x2019;ve loved every moment and I am very sad to be leaving. I feel however that the task given to myself and the leadership team to transform Ogilvy & Mather into a modern marketing agency has been achieved and that it is time for a new leader to take the business to greater heights. What do you think you've gained being part of the agency and what legacy are you leaving behind? I&#x2019;ve gained experience in being a transformational leader. Ogilvy has given the leadership team and the support, inspiration and freedom to modernise the business and continue to be of effective service to our clients. Ogilvy & Mather SA announces resignation of CEO, Abey MokgwatsaneOgilvy & Mather South Africa announced today that Abey Mokgwatsane has resigned as CEO and will be leaving the company at the end of September to join Vodacom as its new Managing Executive for Brand and Communications...Issued by Ogilvy & Mather 7 Jul 2017 I&#x2019;m leaving behind an agency that is well positioned in the modern age. An agency that has retained its number one ranking on the creative and effectiveness tables and an agency with incredible talent and a depth of leadership that will take it far beyond what I have had the honour of leading. Please tell us more about your new role and what it entails. I will be the managing executive of brand and communications for Vodacom. My team and I will be responsible for the amplification of the Vodacom brand in line with the company&#x2019;s growth strategy. What will be your first order of business in your new role? To listen and to observe so as to understand the organisation and the brand. Mzamo Masito, my predecessor has done a great job in managing the brand and all its stakeholders &#x2013; will be building on from the great work he put in. Going forward, what will be your core strategy? I don&#x2019;t know yet. The brand is in a great space and my task will be to build on the success of the talented people that have and continue to manage the brand. What motivates you? Lifelong learning and inspiring the leadership potential in others. Tell us something about yourself not generally known. I completed my first Ironman triathlon this year. It was tough but I&#x2019;ve learnt so much about myself in the process. Here's wishing Mokgwatsane all of the best! Keep track of his career highlights by clicking here and follow Ogilvy & Mather: SA on the following social media channels: Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Vimeo | Youtube