Universities from across South Africa show their support with their attendance at the official investiture. From left: Judge Molemela, CUT Chancellor; Prof. Mike Somniso, the University of Fort Hare; Prof. Henk de Jager, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of CUT; Prof. Stephanie Burton, Vice-Principal: Research and Postgraduate Education at the University of Pretoria; Prof. Thoko Mayekiso, Vice- Chancellor of the University of Mpumalanga ; behind-Mr Mike Mohohlo, Chairperson of CUT Council; Prof. Irene Moutlana, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the Vaal University of Technology; Dr Max Price, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of the University of Cape Town; and Prof. Francis Petersen, Rector and Vice-Chancellor of the University of the Free State.Colleagues, family, friends and stakeholders attended the official event. Fellow academics spoke of their confidence in Prof de Jager&#x2019;s leadership capabilities and vision to lead CUT into the university&#x2019;s vision 2020 and beyond. In his inaugural address, Prof de Jager spoke about reimagining CUT as a university and &#x2018;model&#x2019; university of technology in Africa, influencing the socio-economic development of the central region of South Africa and beyond. &#x201c;I would like to ensure that, whatever we are doing as a university, all our efforts and activities impact on the lives of the people of the central region. I want us to fulfil a prominent role in upliftment and job creation through entrepreneurship in areas such as Botshabelo and Thaba &#x2018;Nchu in Mangaung, and Thabong in Welkom. &#x201c;I want us to give hope to the hopeless, so that they can indeed be happy and enjoy a quality life. Therefore, we must strengthen our innovation ecosystem, including our entrepreneurship education and the recently established CUT Idea Generator; enhance our incubators at both the Bloemfontein and Welkom campuses; and, through partnerships, establish Innovation Parks in Mangaung and Matjhabeng that will assist small, medium and micro-sized enterprises (SMMEs) in the region.&#x201d; He also committed himself to serve, listen and engage with all stakeholders through constructive engagements, producing more leaders than followers with high ethical standards, and a strong value system, who will embrace one race - the human race. He promised to enhance and strengthen partnerships academic institutions in the region and schools through the CUT Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Academy, which is supported by the Free State provincial government. &#x201c;We will continue to grow our international student complement, and enhance our active agreements with international universities, in order to be a truly diverse university,&#x201d; he concluded.