#DesignMonth: The mysterious Monkeybiz of designOn a cold, drizzly morning, the first CreativeMornings event of the year took place at Friends of Design on Bree Street, Cape Town. Roughly 60 early birds braved the welcome rain and attended the session before their work day began By Leigh Andrews 23 Feb 2017 Isaacs is a life coach who helps ambitious people from all walks of life fast-track through the clutter and obstacles they are faced with, so they can live their very best lives. Her career spans 13 years and includes extensive traveling and coaching, in group settings and one-on-one from Italy to London to further afield in the Middle East. Thus far, she has personally worked with people from over 75 nationalities. Madineyah Isaacs During her talk, Isaacs took us on a trip back in time to when she was eight years old, living in the greater Athlone area, in a traditional Muslim household and dreaming of becoming a radio DJ. While sharing her story, she colourfully illustrated her path from booking herself into a rehab facility (after diagnosing herself as clinically depressed) to reaching her dream goal; getting a job as a DJ at Goodhope FM. However, life had other plans for Isaacs and listening to her intuition, she started investing money and time in personal development, which eventually culminated in her making a bold career move from DJ to a successful life coach, coaching people from all over the world. Isaacs says her global perspective coupled with live radio experience makes it easy for her to understand what drives people. Wanting to know more, I pinned her down (she was in Scotland for a workshop) and chatted to her about the challenges facing creatives today, what tools they can use to cope in an industry with an ever-changing landscape and how to remedy a lack of creative flow. Do you find that there's a difference coaching someone who works in a creative industry? If so, why do you think this is the case? As I started my career in the film and radio industry before transitioning into coaching I am well-versed in the creative Industry and having worked with people from over 75 nationalities thus far, I can say no. One small note is that to choose (or it chooses you) a creative role takes bravery as your work is more than likely on display and more open to criticism than it would be in other industries. At the end of the day, we are more alike than we are different and that includes our fears and blocks and equally in our hopes and dreams, no matter what industry you are in. Creative industries can be very competitive and challenging at times. What do you think young creatives should keep in their toolkit or what tool is most important to help them achieve their goals and to succeed professionally? Block out all the outside noise, the naysayers, the dream-killers, those that say &#x2018;it can&#x2019;t be done&#x2019;, &#x2018;who do you think you are too dream that big&#x2019;, etc. and keep your eye on your vision and diligently do the work to master yourself and find your strengths, no matter what. When you do this, you are well on your way to design life on your terms and in due time those same naysayers will ask you &#x2018;show me how you did that, you are so inspiring.&#x2019; Many creatives become discouraged and disillusioned whether it's because of strain, drain or just lack of creative flow. How would one try and remedy this? I would strongly suggest getting a weekly accountability partner you trust, in a similar industry. State your three goals for the week, check-in midway and then again end of the week. It will keep you motivated knowing you have someone to &#x2018;report too&#x2019; and if you drop the ball they can encourage you. Even better reach out to someone you admire in your field and ask them to be your mentor. What would you say are some of the biggest challenges facing creatives today and why? I think it&#x2019;s a long-standing challenge but still there is a notion that it is of lesser value than a more corporate industry. I believe that we all are creative but if it's not nurtured we may not think so. Creativity does not only live in music studios, stages and on TV. If you are arranging a flower bouquet, you are creative, if you are figuring out what to make for dinner and whip up something quickly, you are creative, if you are squeezing into a tight parking bay and get out without scratching the car next to you, you are creative. Everyone is creative, we are just on different playing fields. It is an often-discounted industry but also ironic as it&#x2019;s also the one people freely part money with to partake in. Without the creative industry - there are no movies to unwind to, songs to dance to and plays to attend. Without creativity, our soul dies. Creativity is our life force. The more everyone, including some creatives who discounts their own work, recognises it, the better. Madineyah Isaacs is available for a free 30-minute online coaching consultation to help you clarify your goals and feel more empowered, booking on her website. Her next event, 'Fast Track Your Amazing Life' is on 29 July 2017 from 11am-2pm at 6 Spin Street in Cape Town. Book tickets here.