Brand and business innovator, Chantel Botha, will host a customer experience workshop based on her experience as the founder and Chief Creative Officer of BrandLove. Chantel is someone who obsesses over how customers connect with brands, and finds meaning in designing engaging customer experiences that create values for brands and their patrons. This innovator also guides brands on how to design their distinctive tone as well as how to evoke emotions through spoken, written and digital communication. With a degree in business economics and computer science, she writes for various publications and speaks at conferences around the globe. Founder of bizHQ &#x2013; The Business Headquarters &#x2013; Greg Mason will hold a session on Building Blocks for a Better Business. Greg has developed a sound business acumen, with 14 years of corporate experience in senior strategic management positions in the financial services industry. His corporate days were followed by seven years of business and executive coaching experience, running one of the first successful ActionCOACH Business and Executive Coaching franchise in the country. Greg launched bizHQ in 2015, where he not only helps identify areas for improvement but provides strategies, planning, guidance, support and resources necessary to implement positive changes through consulting, coaching, training, facilitation, outsourcing and contracting. Another headline speaker is Executive Presence Coach, Lynne Baker, who will host a session on Critical Factors Driving Customer Experiences, based on her experience as a certified world-class speaking coach, an Executive Presence consultant, director of the Unique Speaker Bureau&#x2019;s Executive Speaker Programme at Henley Business School and General Manager of Montecasino Corporate Events for 10 years. Lynne delivers fast-paced and fascinating conference presentations with valuable content that can be used immediately after the presentation, as well as dynamic video footage to illustrate key points. Joe Hattingh from Lumi Technologies will present on Exhibition Technology, looking at how to enhance your customer&#x2019;s stand/show experience. A self-proclaimed tech junkie and a strong advocate for improving communication and measurement at conferences and events, he is the Sales Manager of Lumi &#x2013; a company that provides branded, customised apps and handsets that transform conferences and events into lively, energetic environment, whatever the size. With over 20 years of sales experience in technology and software, he makes it his business to keep up with technology trends within the industry. Phumulani Hlatshwayo, General Manager of EXSA, says &#x201c;These are just some of the charismatic speakers who will lead the three days of engagement, growth and networking. We&#x2019;ve worked really hard to put together a respected line-up of guests for this year&#x2019;s conference and we are looking forward to seeing them in action. There is no doubt that delegates will walk away from this conference with key insights and unique perspectives.&#x201d; Accommodation is limited so book now to avoid disappointment. Call EXSA on 011 805 7272 or email us at az.oc.asxe&#64;ofni to book your spot now. Visit www.exsa.co.za.