 bloomua via 123RFBesides giving us the opportunity to reflect on our goals, each new year&#x2019;s halfway mark also reminds us to take a step back and look at our marketing assets to determine where improvements are required. Some assets can wait, but others require a check-in every six months to ensure they deliver optimally on the marketing strategy. These are the four elements you should look at mid-year to determine whether your online assets are doing what they need to do to deliver awareness of your company online. 1. Keyword refining Evaluate your list of keywords and determine if they are still relevant for search engine optimisation (SEO). Assess their search volumes, competition, and if you&#x2019;re using AdWords, the bid price for each word. Based on the analytics, decide whether to test new keywords or variations of keywords. You should ideally commit to keywords for at least six months and evaluate their performance regularly. 2. Website audit Remember that your website is your first and sometimes only chance to make a good impression. People who do not know your company need to find current content that can help them with what they&#x2019;re looking for, and those that do know you should be able to find valuable information to convince them to invest in more of what you have to offer. A thorough website audit is necessary to determine if your website is functioning optimally and doing what it is supposed to do, which is inform, convince and convert. Ask yourself whether your website requires new content or can content just be updated. What about images and videos? Take a look at where changes can be made and evaluate if they have a marked improvement on the performance of your site. 3. Content marketing strategy Take a look at your online content assets, such as your newsletters, blog articles, white papers, press releases, online advertising, videos and web copy. Where are the gaps? What content do you need to develop to engage your target audience and achieve your goal of increasing brand awareness and sales. How can you make the content shareable to attract customers? Content should be valuable and meaningful. Provide sufficient information so that your audience can find what they need and come to a decision. 4. Social media marketing strategy Determine how you can improve your social media strategy by analysing the performance of your assets. Should you expand your social footprint with a new platform or do you need to create new content to up the engagement and attract new followers? For example, using short videos instead of text and images may improve your audience engagement. These are just some of the adjustments you can make to your online assets mid-year. Updating and tweaking on a regular basis is vital to optimise your digital marketing strategy for continued success. Here&#x2019;s to the next six months.