The book explains why relationship fail and offers tried and tested tips to help couples find win-win solutions to overcome problems, strengthen their marriage, and ensure they live happily ever after. Globally marriage is under attack and many people do not have skills to manage relationships intelligently. When the honeymoon phase wears off and the mundane routine of daily life with all its pressures sets in, couples tend to believe that they have married the wrong person and wish to opt out. They do not realise that reacting emotionally and feeling unloved or mismatched is not the solution. The co-authors say: The heart is not good at relationships. Reacting emotionally does not solve problems. By using our brain and thinking rationally, it is possible to find mutually beneficial alternatives. This was our experience, having had a rocky few years at the beginning of our marriage, but divorce was not an option, so we had to find answers. We began by changing ourselves because it is impossible to change another person, and this resulted in positive changes in our relationship. We learned that the key to happiness is not finding the right person, but doing the right thing. This attitude transformed our marriage. Through years of counselling couples on different continents, the co-authors realised that the problems facing all marriages are very similar. This enabled them to offer common sense strategies to deepen, rather than divide relationships. Their advice is contained in the book and at the end of each chapter, Bulletproof Marriage presents a task which couples are encouraged to do together to help entrench the steps suggested in the section. The co-authors acknowledge that happy marriages do not happen magically, but take hard work. They suggest that just as a successful business requires ongoing strategic maintenance to meet changing goals and ensure goals are met, marriage should be approached as a business partnership where each person has a responsibility to contribute to its wellbeing. They write: Focusing on the problem and putting emotions to the side is how businesses survive and thrive. By using the same tools, your marriage can overcome all challenges. The Wedding Expo will be held at the Durban Exhibition Centre on 5 and 6 August 2017. Bulletproof Marriage: Your shield against divorce will be available at the show special of R150. Visit stand C16 and chat to happily married couples who use wisdom from the inspirational book to resolve challenges in their relationship. For further information, please contact gro.egairramfoorptellub&#64;ofni or visit the website www.bulletproofmarriage.org.