World-renowned South African HIV/Aids research pioneer Doctor Glenda Gray and Deputy Minister in the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Stella Tembisa Ndabeni-Abrahams, will be amongst the high-profile speakers engaging with, and inspiring, delegates at this year&#x2019;s conference. The annual conference draws together respected business leaders who are passionate about embodying and driving gender empowerment in Africa. The programme showcases some of the most successful stories and strategies being implemented around the advancement of leadership roles for women and networks decision makers who are serious about economy-wide progress: empowerment experts, academics, government representatives and CEOs. What&#x2019;s all the buzz on digital disruption? Aside from the quest for 50/50 gender parity, the dawn of a golden era for Africa&#x2019;s entrepreneurial women and a focus on mentorship between the icons and the up-and-comers of business and industry, one of the key hot buttons being pushed at this year&#x2019;s conference is the notion that digital prowess is no longer the domain of men. In tune with the global trend, more and more South African women are upskilling and powering ahead to take up senior data management, I.T. systems and programming roles, or utilising new tech tools to shake up their market sectors. Technology-based qualifications are enabling women to accelerate their success far beyond the confines of the (in this context) almost-irrelevant traditional &#x2018;glass ceiling - which has been replaced by a digital stratosphere (nowhere is this more evident than in India, where the ratio of women studying digital qualifications is 40% higher when compared to men). Through the course of the two-day conference, delegates will gain insight from admired women leaders in business and government through entrepreneurial networking, mentorship exchanges, interactive panel discussions and the sharing of award-winning case studies on real-world success stories. Click here to download the programme or click here to book your seat. For more information contact Asanda Munyu on az.oc.ocpot&#64;uynum.adnasa *Top Women is an inclusive platform. Men are also warmly welcomed.