African Union Headquarters Addis Ababa. Image Source: Addis Ababa Online After the announcement of the signature of three other hotel management agreements (Mercure, ibis and ibis Styles) early this February, AccorHotels continues to reinforce its forthcoming position in Addis Ababa with this flagship hotel. In line with the MGallery by Sofitel brand standards, the hotel will benefit from a unique modern design coupled with a strong African identity. The interior design of the hotel will be performed by DIAD, a renowned designer having already completed projects in Africa and in the Middle East. Ideal for business trips The new MGallery by Sofitel Addis Ababa, which opening is estimated towards the second half of 2018, will feature 218 guestrooms and suites. It will also have some large meeting and event spaces, two restaurants (an all-day dining and a fine dining restaurant on the eight floor) as well as three bars. In addition, clients will be able to enjoy a swimming pool, a gym and a spectacular spa. The MGallery by Sofitel Addis Ababa, will benefit from its close proximity to the Africa Union&#x2019;s headquarters, making it an ideal choice for business trips, conferences, and other institutional events, but will also attract the increasing flow of leisure travellers to Ethiopia. Growing with Ethiopia &#x201c;We are delighted to sign this new management agreement in Addis Ababa, which brings our pipe of confirmed projects to over 1,000 keys across all market segments (economy, midscale and upscale). This project reaffirms our ambitious development strategy for Africa, with Ethiopia as one of the key targeted markets. The new MGallery by Sofitel Addis Ababa will reinforce our role in the luxury segment by offering our clientele one of the best addresses in town,&#x201d; said Steven Daines, CEO of AccorHotels for Africa and Middle East. Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia, has become a fast growing regional economic center. It is home to the African Union, the UN Economic Commission for Africa, foreign missions, regional NGO&#x2019;s and the UN Conference Center.