The menu may be cute and quirky however the deco is supremely sophisticated, pale wooden flooring and a classy cream and beige palette is accented by gold tables and lux chandeliers making this eatery perfect for both lazy brunching and glam dinners. Liquor locating I was recently invited for a meal and chose last Saturday night to test-run this new restaurant. Forgetting that the restaurant has not yet secured a liquor licence, panic set in once our waiter informed us that we couldn&#x2019;t order our celebratory bottle of bubbles. A dry dinner (!) my dining partner and I looked at each other in horror. Luckily she lives just round the corner and we quickly popped back to collect a bottle of champers that was already chilling in her fridge. Crisis averted. Next task was to select what to eat, not that easy, everything on the menu sounded worthy of sampling. I eventually settled on the Holy Cow which included buttery tender beef fillet, button mushrooms, charred sweet onion, creamy potato puree and a rich beef jus. Deceptively simple yet such a pleasure to eat. My partner chose the Sesame Tuna that already seems to have made a name for itself even though Lily&#x2019;s has only been open since early May. The tuna is accompanied with sticky coconut rice, wasabi aioli and edamame beans. Choco #YOLO After a short breather, we decided to go big with dessert and ordered the Espresso Yourself and Death By Chocolate. I had the Death By Chocolate which consists of chocolate tart, white chocolate mousse, salted caramel, chocolate sauce, caramel popcorn, cocoa crumble and vanilla pod ice-cream. Oh be still my sugar rushing heart. As overwhelming as this dessert sounds it was well balanced and not overly sickly. I believe I finished it all and am confidently still standing, ready to fight another chocolate fuelled day. Named after Kove Collection founder Paul Kovensky&#x2019;s daughter and styled by his wife Simone, Lily&#x2019;s is a charming space to kick back and enjoy some really good food and good vibes. Lily&#x2019;s is situated at Shop 1, East-West Building, corner Beach Road and Surrey Place Mouille Point Cape Town. Opening times Monday &#x2013; Sunday, 7am &#x2013; 10pm For more info or to make a booking, click here or contact 021 204 8545, az.oc.tnaruatsersylil&#64;ofni