Amenities and extras The lodge is supremely secluded and hugs the banks of the picturesque Swartvlei Lagoon, making it ideal for a romantic getaway. It offers nine luxurious suites, a fine dining restaurant and a spa. Our room was elegantly decorated and included all the usual amenities such as Wi-Fi, air con, DSTV, a Nespresso coffee maker and a mini bar, bathroom with a freestanding bath and a walk-in shower as well as delicious complimentary chocolate treats from the chef. Our room also offered beautiful views of the lagoon and grounds. So beautiful, I managed to pry myself from the warm, cosy bed, dressed in a fluffy robe, to snap a pic from our porch area just as the early morning autumn sun made itself known. Sure is pretty in #Sedgefield &#xfffd;&#xfffd; A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on May 4, 2017 at 11:58pm PDT The restaurant is part of the prestigious Benguela collection and offers a two or three course menu of a few delicious sounding options. However, we stayed on a Thursday night and this day of the week equals their curry special night. Flurry of curry There was a choice of three curries; a yellow seafood curry, a punchy beef tom yum curry and spicy Thai green curry. Torn between which curry to choose I was happy to see all three courses could be ordered as starter portions. One main curry dish and the curry trio all come with steamed rice, poppadoms, rotis, coconut shavings, tomato and onion sambal and yogurt. I highly recommend the fragrant and subtly spiced yellow seafood curry. On the only real downside the rotis were really not up to par, dry, thick and very chewy. They detracted from this otherwise delicious dish. ...the aromas excite your senses while you wait for your curry to be served.https://t.co/hlvVnoZ0cn #foodie #curry #flavour pic.twitter.com/jYMxx3eUST&#x2014; Lakeside Lodge & Spa (@Lakeside_LodgeS) May 3, 2017 Complimentary water sports The following morning, we awoke to a beautiful still and clear day and after a hearty fry up breakfast, we decided on a little paddle to help offset the calories. The lodge offers kayaks, SUPs, skiing, wakeboarding, windsurfing and fishing charters on the lagoon. All water sports are offered to guests on a complimentary basis. We donned our life jackets and enjoyed a pleasant paddle along the banks of the lagoon, with much bird life on offer, before we packed up and checked out. Take me lakeside &#x26f5; A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on May 5, 2017 at 3:17am PDT For more info or to make a booking, visit the Lakeside Lodge website.