Mechell ChettyThe company is introducing this out-of-the-ordinary recruitment feature, which mixes gaming with video interviews to find the best and brightest graduates, following its success in Europe, parts of Asia and North America. The company receives over 250,000 graduate applications every year and close to 15,000 in Africa alone. The new programme uses digital analysis, removing the potential for unconscious bias in the recruitment process. It is the first FMCG business to release a fully digital recruitment process. Mechell Chetty, VP HR: Africa, says, &#x201c;This digital platform will be rolled out in other Unilever companies across the rest of the world during the remainder of the year.&#x201d; Designed with millennials in mind, the new programme is quick and interactive with candidates receiving feedback at every stage. It has four main steps. Firstly, candidates will fill out an online application form that they can synchronize with their LinkedIn account with ease. Successful candidates are then invited to play a series of games, taking no more than 20 minutes. The way in which applicants play these games will allow Unilever to get an insight into candidates&#x2019; potential and how well they connect with the company&#x2019;s goals and purpose. The best candidates will then take part in a video interview for which they record their answers at a convenient time. For the final part of the process, candidates are invited to a Discovery Centre, where they get to know each other and collaborate virtually, then for a day long face-to-face event, giving them an immersive experience of a &#x2018;day in the life&#x2019; at Unilever. Two-way feedback At every stage, there is a two-way feedback facility, allowing candidates to share insight on their experience of the process, as well as receiving feedback on their performance, areas of strength and development areas. The aim is to help them in their career regardless of whether they are successful or not. &#x201c;This ensures we continue our agenda on improving youth employability across Africa as students receive insights on careers that suit their personality and make the best choice based on these insights,&#x201d; added Chetty. From the CV, to the candidate search, to the interview, Unilever is using technology to create an interactive experience that allows them to form a meaningful connection with applicants. &#x201c;We know that people increasingly live their lives online and our recruitment process must reflect that. This new process will be faster, simpler and more flexible, allowing graduates to fit applying around their lives. By enabling applications through mobile devices, the new process will be able to ensure that we reach students more widely across Africa, as mobile devices serve as the primary way to access the internet for many across the continent. In addition, we aim to create a process that removes any personal bias and gives each applicant an impartial chance. &#x201c;It is hoped that this innovative approach will give applicants a valuable experience, help us attract new talent to the company driving our vision to grow the business, whilst decoupling our environmental footprint and increasing our positive social impact,&#x201d; concluded Chetty.