In consultation with Indigo Fusion and Jade & Ginja, the design has borrowed from some of the Art Deco elements of Sea Point&#x2019;s architecture, while also drawing in contemporary metallics and natural wood against the market&#x2019;s open industrial background. The retail area faces both inwards (towards a central bar) and outwards (onto the pavement) on the lower floor with a seating area against the glass sea-facing wall. A small mezzanine adds to the number of stalls on offer. The owners, Graeme Robinson, Robbie Lessem and Tara Lerner (who also own the Mojo Hotel), created the market to extend the experience of the hotel visitors but also to give Sea Point residents an interesting new retail and leisure space. Robinson says, &#x201c;Mojo Market has been carefully curated to offer an interesting mix of lifestyle, food and retail. We plan to keep the space alive at night with events too.&#x201d; The market will also offer 24-hour coffee via The Mojo Coffee Collective and it is planned that other food vendors will extend their hours too. Lessem adds, &#x201c;The project was inspired by some of the world&#x2019;s great city markets, it is not a farmer&#x2019;s market, it has the energy of a city.&#x201d; Tour, eat, shop GoNow rents bikes from the market and visitors can organise some adrenaline activities with Capextreme Adventure Tours. The food offering at the market includes Manga Sushi, Kubu African Grill, The Mussel Monger, Argies Argentinian Grill, Te Awesome Tea, The Candy Shoppe, IYO Burger, Chilo and Hokey Poke are amongst the vendors. Cape Point Bakery will be baking on site and Beet Box will serve fresh health juices and salad. In a first for the Atlantic seaboard, the American ice-cream brand Baskin-Robins will be opening shop at the market. The Mojo Coffee Collective will display the best of Cape Town&#x2019;s artisanal roasters, including Deluxe, Baseline, Hazz, Truth, Origin, Za Cafe and its own Mojo Blend, which will be roasted onsite. The retail offering focuses largely on local and international producers who are creating fresh, contemporary wares from clothing to gifts, jewellery and homeware. Confirmed vendors include Dammit Janet clothing, Sexy Bum Bikinis, Shika Africa&#x2019;s and Shweshwe-inspired clothing and accessories, King Kong&#x2019;s leather goods, Matsidiso handmade shoes, Just a Rumour beaded jewellery, King of Denim&#x2019;s ethically created jeans, Vanilla Tree Indo-African clothing, Modern and Tribal&#x2019;s Turkish-inspired decor, Kwaai Galleries handmade gifts and homewear and more. Trading hours The market trades 364 days a year, with Christmas Day as an option for traders. The market is open from 9am to 9pm and the food stalls are open from 10am to 10pm in summer and 10am to 9pm in winter. Check out some of the food and products on offer in the Mojo Market gallery.