 Cathy Yeulet 123RF.comThe EduWeek Awards brings together the education industry&#x2019;s most influential professionals and is a leading event and platform to recognise, reward and celebrate the success of Africa&#x2019;s education sector during 2016/2017. The awards are recognised as one of the highest accolades that educators and education suppliers can receive in the education space. There are multiple awards for institutions, organisations and educational professionals. The categories are as follows: Environmental Sustainability Award This award aims to recognise those institutions or individuals that can demonstrate a positive impact either within their school or community of their sustainable initiatives either by increasing environmental awareness or by positively contributing to a more sustainable approach theough a recycling/compost/water harvesting/green building/renewable energy project. NGO Impact of the Year This award will celebrate and reward the best non-profit organisation by recognising examples of best practice and successful resource mobilisation. <>Institution Leader of the Year This award will be presented to an education institution leader who, in his/her life and role, personifies outstanding qualities and attainments inleadership, the advancement of sound economic practices, and adherence to the highest ethical standards. Teacher of Tomorrow This award recognises a person who has made an outstanding contribution to the education sector. This professional has had outstanding achievements to date and strong potential to play a leading role in their field going forward. Inspiration Award (new category) This award recognises a person of any age who is doing remarkable work in the education sector and who has had outstanding achievements to date and strong potential to play a leading role in their field going forward. Lifetime Achievement Award This award is for lifetime achievement rather than for a single contribution, nomatter how monumental. Nominees should have a minimum of 25 years of distinguished service to education. Entries are received from all over Africa and are thoroughly researched and judged by a panel that is hand-picked for their expertise and thought leadership in each of the sectors. Entries close on the 19 May 2017 and finalists are announced on the 16 June 2016. To enter or nominate a worthy recipient for the EduWeek Awards, go to: www.educationweek.co.za/eduweek-education-awards/ For more information, visit: www.educationweek.co.za.