The name and the concept of the show was inspired by John Coltrane's genius four-part seminal jazz work, A Love Supreme. The album was Coltrane's display of supreme musical excellence and this show aims to offer Afropolitans four hours of highly specialised, carefully curated supreme music for the discerning ear. The esteemed line-up is made up of Tha_Muzik, Kenzhero, Just Themba, and The Rhythm Sessions. Kenneth Nzama, popularly known as Kenzhero, began his journey through an events company called Organix. They put together the Open Mind Sessions that brought bands such as Tumi and the Volume and Kwani Experience. Kenzhero went on to deejay in Cape Town where he became a household name for music listeners that valued good music. His career as the musical maestro led him to play across the country and eventually showcased his trait at the high-end corporate events. Muzi Mtshali has a unique jazz-inspired appreciation of music, that has influenced the inception of what would become Tha_Muzik. Tha_Muzik has wowed crowds with the best of hip-hop blended flawlessly in mind-blowing sets. Throughout the years, his sets evolved and moved towards his first love, jazz. Today he has coined his style of music as #JazzyFunkadelik. It is in this space that he has found his true sound and purpose as a deejay. The highlight of his career was performing to a crowd of 8,000 in Niteroi, Brazil, in April 2016. Edgar Mfaba (Edsoul) and Hlalefang Nomganga (Fang DaRhythm), make up what is known as The Rhythm Sessions.. Prior to 2008, they were just individuals who loved to deejay and had a great love for sound engineering. Little did they know their passion, experience, and coming together to start The Rhythm Sessions would build this fresh brand eight years later. Today, Traxsource has listed their first track in the top 100 list for 2016. The Rhythm Sessions have had music they made remixed by Grammy Award-winning deejay Louie Vega and released on Vega Records, are dressed by fine brand houses, are the only deejays in South Africa to play using Isolators, and have featured seasoned artists on their songs, including Portia Monique, Sheldon so Goode, Wanda Baloyi, and Brutha Basil. Themba Mbelu, also known as JustThemba, fell in love with deejaying in high school. His career began in 2008 as part of the Music Atlast DJ collective. His sets remain deeply rooted in hip-hop, also containing an eclectic mix of soul, jazz, Latin, house, acid jazz and funk. He's opened for renowned international acts such as K'Naan, DJ Babu, Louie Vega, Masta Ace, Bahamadia, Eric Lau, Freddie Joachim and The Foreign Exchange. JustThemba is a sought-after &#x201c;mood-creator&#x201d;. You will find him performing in venues which range from small intimate settings to big stages like the Joburg Craft Beer Festival, Back To The City Festival, Jameson Cult Film Club, Summer Shakedown (Lesotho) and The Annual DStv Delicious Festival. &#x201c;The musical make-up of the show will be: nu jazz, lounge, afro beat, house, hip-hop, samba, salsa, world music and bossa nova; an exciting combination, that will set the mood for a memorable Saturday afternoon,&#x201d; says Kaya FM Music Manager, Nkosinathi Nutty Mbelu. Sound Supreme launches live on Kaya FM 95.9 on Saturday, 6 May 2017, from 14h00-18h00. To tie in with the show on Kaya FM, every first Saturday of the month Kaya FM will broadcast live from MESH Members Club & Bar in Rosebank. Open to the public from 4pm.