What is small data? The little things, the tiny human observations that can provide market-unlocking insights and uncover trends in thinking and behaviour that were not immediately apparent. 1. Small data helps you see your target audience as people, not consumers. It&#x2019;s very easy to reduce people to a set of data points, behaviours or their ability to consume the brands and products we represent. But this sells them short, and stops us as brand custodians from seeing them as real people. When we reduce people to purely their ability to buy things, we excise huge swathes of meaning. People are not always consumers, but they are always people. 2. Small data unlocks not just consumer insights, but human insights. If we start looking for those tiny pieces of small data; we find insights into people&#x2019;s human nature, not just their buying patterns. This was put to great use when we helped Levi&#x2019;s figure out sluggish sales in the SA market. One of the women we were interviewing leant forward and her jeans bunched up, leaving a gaping hole on her waistline &#x2013; they simply didn&#x2019;t fit properly. No amount of flagging sales data could ever reveal something like that. 3. Small data allows people to feel true ownership of a brand. When you take the time to listen to someone and indicate to them that you truly value their opinion, you often find yourself with a fan for life. We see this time and again when we bring consumers and brand teams together. Having someone &#x2018;from the brand&#x2019; listen to you and take your opinion into account is a connection between a brand and a consumer you cannot buy. Our challenge becomes: How might we make even more people feel that we are paying attention to their needs as a brand? 4. Small data energises and reinvigorates internal brand teams. Time and again, we see how exciting it is for brand teams to spend time getting to know the consumers of their brands and products. So many of our branding decisions are made in boardrooms and offices so far removed from people that we can forget about them entirely. Speaking to people who actually use our brands and seeing what they love and what they hate about them is both gratifying and motivating. 5. Small data creates shared meaning and value. Who really owns our brands? Us as custodians, or the people who spend their hard-earned money buying them? By utilising small data and paying attention to the people we are selling to, we can start to feel a connection with them. We can design our processes and thinking for them (as rich market segments) rather than just a nameless, faceless LSM grouping. We do work for brands, but at the end of the day, we&#x2019;re really working for the people who buy them. To highlight how our clients have used our small data methodology in the past, this interview with Charl Cronje, ex MD of Pepkor, indicates how he and his teams have partnered with us in the past to really make a difference in the lives of consumers. PEP Africa_Small Data from Instant Grass International on Vimeo.