 Christos Georghiou via 123RFChanging consumer patterns Bosun Tijani, co-founder of Nigerian incubator Co-Creation Hub (CcHub), said successful startups needed to change the way people consume products and services. &ldquo;If you are creating a business that does not have qualities that can change consumption patterns you have a problem from the start,&rdquo; he said. Creating new sectors Many African tech startups are involved with essentially launching whole new sectors, where previously there were only non-profits. That is certainly the case for Christopher Baker-Brian, co-founder and chief technology officer (CTO) at solar provider BBOXX. &ldquo;Ten years ago our sector didn&rsquo;t really exist, it was very much aid-driven. Creating that sector has been a challenge,&rdquo; he said. Access to capital Ask African tech startups what their major challenge is and most will say lack of funding, though&nbsp;more and more companies are securing investment. This is certainly the case for Baker-Brian, though BBOXX is very well backed. &ldquo;We are a product finance business so we need access to capital,&rdquo; he said. Connectivity Another&nbsp;regular gripe of African startups&nbsp;is the poor connectivity that, in spite of improvements, still bedevils the continent. Baker-Brian says it remains a challenge for BBOXX. &ldquo;It needs to improve to get access to high quality data in real time. We try to partner with service providers to tackle this but it takes time,&rdquo; he said. Market size Africa&rsquo;s middle class is growing, but not as fast as many think. Plus, while many people remain disconnected from the internet and financial services, market size can be an issue. Baker-Brian thinks there are opportunities in this, however. &ldquo;We think there&rsquo;s a decently sized market, we are a long way from market saturation. Population growth and household growth is rapid,&rdquo; he said. Getting the process right For Deepankar Rustagi, co-founder of Nigerian business directory and search engine VConnect, most African startups are very clear on what problem they are trying to solve but fail because they don&rsquo;t properly figure out how to do it. &ldquo;Everyone advises startups to focus on the problem, but they don&rsquo;t focus on the process,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We had to completely change that process.&rdquo; Securing revenues for runway Andrew Osayemi, co-founder of hit TV series Meet the Adebanjos, said a major challenge of scaling a business &ndash; especially in his sector &ndash; is access to revenue. &ldquo;Revenue is decided by advertisers, but getting access and having repeatability is difficult. You have to learn how to adapt, so that holds back your growth,&rdquo; he said. Payment times are also a problem. &ldquo;In terms of acquiring customers, you have to raise money. The time between the period educating customers and them paying may be six months, so there is a lot of faith,&rdquo; Osayemi said.