Durban is in for a treat as a top selection of live acts will grace two stages at the first ever Parklife Gourmet Food and Music Festival at the Durban Botanic Gardens. The festival has already garnered a solid following in Johannesburg and Cape Town, and organisers at Breakout Management are excited to include Durban as its 3rd Parklife festival city, making Parklife the only national festival of its kind. The inaugural Parklife festival will be headlined by internationals Matt Simons (USA), De Hofnar (Netherlands), Gavin James (Ireland), and Melvv (USA) and joined by top local acts Jeremy Loops, Matthew Mole, GoodLuck, Kyle Deutsch, Sketchy Bongo, Josh Wantie, Easy Freak and Alexander May. Parklife Festival&#x2019;s Food Village will host a vast selection of gourmet food and Durbanites will have a pick of innovative, delicious offerings across a range of culinary styles to satisfy the taste buds. Come hungry &#x2013; the food selection is worth exploring and enjoying! About the international headliners: New York-based singer-songwriter Matt Simons achieved his greatest commercial success with Catch & Release, the title track from his self-titled album Catch & Release. The single achieved far bigger success after it was remixed by Dutch house duo producers Deepend, charting as Catch & Release (Deepend Remix) in a number of European charts including Austria, France, Germany and peaking at No. 1 on Ultratop, the official Belgian Singles Chart. De Hofnar won over local fans when he collaborated with GoodLuck on the hit single Back in the Day reaching #1 on radio charts across SA. His 2013 debut single Oxas, in collaboration with Gamper & Dadoni, was released by MGM Records and his first record hit over 12m plays on Spotify. Shortly thereafter his first official EP &#x2018;Zonnestraal&#x2019; was released and hit over 6m plays on Spotify and Soundcloud. With these tracks and the well-known remixes of Same Love (Macklemore), All of Me (John Legend) and Klanga (Gostan), which got 15m plays on Youtube and Soundcloud and got supported by Tiesto, Oliver Heldens and Sam Feldt, De Hofnar quickly made a name in the melodic deep house scene. Gavin James&#x2019; debut album &#x2018;Bitter Pill&#x2019; has hit over 100,000 sales worldwide so far since its 2016 release. Gavin has picked up the Choice Music&#x2019;s &#x2018;Song Of The Year&#x2019; award for &#x2018;Bitter Pill&#x2019; and the Music Business Worldwide A&R breakthrough award in the UK. His breakthrough hit Nervous hit Top 10 in 6 European markets, multi-platinum in 5 and saw him perform the track across the world on the Late Show With James Corden, The Voice, Norway&#x2019;s Got Talent and more. He has toured with major internationals act such as Sam Smith, Ed Sheeran, and Tori Kelly and is currently working on material for his second album. This summer will see Gavin release his next single; along with a tour in the fall and leading into his sophomore album in 2018. Hailing from Milwaukee in the USA, 20-year-old producer/DJ Melvv (AKA Jeffrey Melvin) has established himself as a rising star in music. Melvv kicked off last year&#x2019;s festival season with a performance at the legendary Coachella Music Festival, with a set at the Do Lab Stage. He later went on to tour with Big Gigantic, Louis The Child, and Jai Wolf. Between his hectic touring schedule, Melvv&#x2019;s most recent singles Goodbye and Not Me have topped the Hype Machine charts and have millions of streams across the world. Melvv&#x2019;s unique musical background that includes early exposure to jazz, electronic, classical, and rock has come to influence him immensely. As a result, Melvv&#x2019;s distinct sound cannot be contained to one genre. He continues to make a statement with each of his releases, and is set to release his debut EP in 2017. Look out for this youngster to push the boundaries and usher in a new era of electronic music. Limited Early Bird tickets are on sale now from Webtickets at R195 for adults and R125 for kids aged 5 to 12. Children under the age of 5 enter for free. For more info, click here