The Mercury F1 Team from Fourways High comprises four girls and one boy and team Rip and Ride from Jabulani Technical High School has four boys and two girls, showing an increased trend in girls&#x2019; interest in design and engineering. There were eight schools in the final competition. &#x201c;The competition requires teams. The challenge has become well known worldwide as an educational competition that actively promotes STEM. It is a prestigious and fun event where the value of learning is showing exceptional results,&#x201d; said Bez Sangari, CEO, Sangari Education. Pieter du Plessis, F1 in Schools programme manager at Sangari Education said, &#x201c;The programme develops a true entrepreneurial spirit in students who are required to prepare a business plan, do research and build links with industry to gain sponsorship. Students gain first-hand experience in marketing and accounting, needing to provide a complete portfolio as part of the competition.&#x201d; Sangari added, &#x201c;What makes the F1 in Schools Technology Challenge different is that it entails a comprehensive and inclusive learning approach. Learners engage with subjects that improve their literacy, numeracy, sport and sports science, design and technology, art and design, textiles knowledge, STEM learning, computing, and business and enterprise. &#x201c;The programme focuses on using project based learning, as an approach where learners go through the physical experiences themselves. In their teams, they are faced with challenges, victories, planning and obstacles that need to be overcome to succeed. This teaches teamwork and develops communication along with leadership skills from a young age.&#x201d; Using 3D CAD software, students design a car, based on the specifications set by the International Rules Committee, and use Computational Fluid Dynamics Software (CFD) to analyse their car designs. Using 3D CAM software, the teams evaluate the most efficient machining strategy to make their cars. Schools gain the benefit of the blended learning process, and the teams in the final are encouraged to obtain sponsorship. Opportunities exist for sponsors to display their logos on team cars while primary sponsors will have exposure on the F1 in Schools website and at the finals. For more information, go to www.f1inschools.com.