&#x201c;Perth will become the western hub for our international services to the United Kingdom and potentially other European destinations in the future,&#x201d; Joyce said. &#x201c;Combining all of our operations under one roof means customers can transfer from domestic to international services without changing terminals. The new design allows for an outdoor space and natural sunlight, which is something we know our customers will value ahead of a long-haul flight. New international transit lounge Qantas will also construct a new international transit lounge that will provide a space for customers to relax and refresh between flights. The transit lounge will offer more than a dozen shower suites, space to refresh and a wellness facility. The outdoor patio provides fresh air and natural light, with a barbecue grill and Neil Perry designed Australian-style BBQ menu. The international transit lounge has been designed for customers transiting in Perth when travelling on QF9 from Melbourne to London and QF10 from London to Melbourne. Perth customers will also have access to the lounge. Perth Airport CEO Kevin Brown welcomed the announcement of the new passenger facilities. &#x201c;There&#x2019;s already been so much hard work done by the Perth Airport and Qantas teams on this project and it&#x2019;s incredibly exciting that we can now see the vision taking shape for what will be a world-class transit lounge,&#x201d; Brown said. The International Transit Lounge has been designed as a collaboration between leading firm SUMU Design and award-winning Australian industrial designer David Caon who is also the lead designer for the interiors of the Qantas Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner. The redesign of the T3/T4 precinct was created by architecture firm Noxon Giffen Preparatory works have begun with the project to be completed by March next year, in time for the inaugural non-stop services between Perth and London. Qantas will move its operations to an expanded Terminal 1 at Perth Airport by 2025, pending a commercial agreement. Qantas will continue to operate the current Qantas Club in Terminal 1 to cater for customers travelling internationally on partner airlines.