This European tech and digital conference puts together the top tech startups, investors and aspiring creatives to network, collaborate as well as learn from people that have done it all before. The Next Web conference is going to be held in Amsterdam between 18 and 19 May, with many smaller events happening all week to maximise the networking and fun. I (The Batman) am going to be representing The Talent Boom at this event with my colleague Laura that is based at our Amsterdam office. We are a boutique creative, tech and digital headhunting agency, operating across the EMEA markets. The Next Web conference is considered one of Europe&#x2019;s biggest tech events, showcasing the technologies currently gripping the markets as well as future game changers. Looking at the South African landscape, the last event I attended which brought all creatives together was the Loeries in Durban, August last year. The Loeries are considered a top event on the South African creative and digital calendar. To compare the two would not be fair as the one is more of an award show and the other is a tech conference, but the Loeries had masterclasses where speakers could showcase and discuss in smaller venues as well as the big DStv conference bringing in speakers from Facebook, Google as well as top South African industry leaders. The buzz on Twitter has already begun with speakers such as Imran Khan from Snapchat, Founder & CEO of Tumblr, even the world-famous DJ and producer Hardwell and many more. They will be major networking functions with some after-hour parties (as we all know creatives like to party). Representing The Talent Boom at an event like this will not only showcase our growing brand but also represent South Africa on the world stage and I will be sure to mention how I walk my lion daily and occasionally swim with my pet crocodile. I&#x2019;m also looking forward to exploring Amsterdam for the first time and get a feel for the creative and tech scene as it will be my first time in Europe. It will also be interesting to compare how far we are in terms of technology and creative ability between Cape Town and Amsterdam as they are both cities known for their tech startups. From the videos and media from last year&#x2019;s TNW Conference, there is no argument that this is going to be an epic event. From rubbing shoulders with household names as well as the future tech startups which will change the game, Amsterdam will be a trip to remember. Looking forward to hitting the ground running in Amsterdam with my partner in crime to learn about the current trends and future technologies of the creative and tech world.