 Ivan Smuk via 123RFThe new brand partnership opportunity will see Cinevation work under the management of Debbie Brady, commercial director, Discovery Networks Africa, to identify potential projects that will generate revenue and increase the brand awareness of Discovery Channel and TLC, through brand partnership agreements including channel and online sponsorship deals for brand integration. &#x201c;Due to a shift in advertising trends, brands now want to create bespoke consumer experiences, with the ultimate aim of delivering the right message to the right audience, at the right time and place,&#x201d; said Brady. &#x201c;At Discovery, we recognise this change, and are excited to partner with an innovative company like Cinevation and leverage their expertise and the power of Discovery Channel and TLC to provide greater synergies with third-party brands who demand more intuitive, 360 media solutions.&#x201d; Partnership &#x201c;We are thrilled to enter into this new partnership with Discovery Networks and to work closely with the teams both in Africa and London,&#x201d; said Karen Bailey, Cinevation managing partner. &#x201c;Cinevation is known for its Out of the Box thinking and so structuring multifaceted Brand Partnership deals are ideally suited for us, and as such we already have many new and innovative ideas which we look forward to taking to the industry.&#x201d; This new partnership follows a period of sustained growth for Discovery Channel and TLC Entertainment in Africa. Discovery Channel is dedicated to creating the highest quality content that informs, inspires and entertains across genres including turbo, science and adventure. This year, Discovery Channel will supercharge its content offering with an ambitious line-up of bold documentary specials, popular returning series and specially curated local content that will resonate with viewers across the continent. This includes the upcoming real-life adventure series Cooper&#x2019;s Treasure; the topical event special Mosquito; the scripted series Manhunt: Unabomber; plus new episodes of fan favourites, such as Gold Rush and Fast n&#x2019; Loud. TLC&#x2019;s rise in Africa since its launch in 2012 is unparalleled. In 2017, TLC will increase local content, returning global franchises and engaging consumer activations. Viewers can look forward to more wedding dress drama in Say Yes To The Dress; cake creations in Cake Boss; and brand new series Hair Goddess; and Diana: Tragedy Or Treason, a topical special marking the 20thanniversary of Princess Diana&#x2019;s death.