In an increasingly connected marketplace and a world of &#x201c;sameness&#x201d;, marketing professionals strive harder than ever to stand out and produce better results. To achieve this, marketers need to stay at the forefront of market trends, branding and the integrated communications landscape. &#x201c;Marketing Indaba&#x2019;s programme and content will supply marketers with fresh ideas and key considerations to elevate marketing strategies and ultimately improve the bottom line,&#x201d; says Chris de Klerk, creator and programme director of Marketing Indaba. The 16+ speakers will share their experiences, learnings, best practices, advice and tips during the two-day programme. The agenda includes topics such as: Marketing and communication trends, Brand differentiation through experiences, Earning stakeholder trust in an era of decline, Brand projection, Generation C &#x2013; the new force in culture and commerce, Bootstrap branding & marketing, creating interesting advertising, Social Media, Content Marketing, B2B Marketing, Marketing to low income groups and much, much more. Speakers include marketing experts like: Mathew Weiss (Brand Union), Werner Lindemann (Mediamark), Verusha Maharaj (TCC Africa), Glenn Gillis (Sea Monster), Nancy Lockett (FNB), Trevor Wolfe (delvv.io), Matthew Barclay (Meltwater), Lisa Steingold (PopiMedia), No leen Bruton (Tsogo Sun), Mike Saunders (Digitlab), Kabelo Ncholo (Yourself Management), Crayg Hitzeroth (Ad Dynamo), Jordan Rittenberry (Edelman SA), Sol Mukasa (Shift ONE), Simon Grainger (BrandBright) and others. Over the past six years, owners CADEK Media, has created a productive event and valuable meeting place for marketers. A place where serious marketers can skill-up, be inspired, find new ideas and get re-fuelled to stay ahead of competitors and in the forefront. &#x201c;Attending the Marketing Indaba was probably the best thing we have done for our business in a long time. It made us realise our marketing mistakes and although we knew that we needed to be unique, we weren&#x2019;t bringing this into our marketing properly. Since attending the conference and implementing the changes, we realised that our website traffic has almost doubled and the amount of sign up forms completed on our website have grown by 20%. This was achieved in 6 months and we haven&#x2019;t even implemented everything that we have learnt from the speakers!&#x201d; - Leigh Goosen, MD at WAPPoint & Mobilecash Marketers across all industries are invited to attend. The conference will be hosted at The Wanderers Club, Illovo, Johannesburg on 24-25 May 2017. Tickets are available online at www.marketingindaba.com or from the organiser&#x2019;s office, CADEK Media at Tel: 021 854 4700.