We spoke to Amelia May Woudstra, the PR manager for H&M South Africa about the line and H&M's sustainability practises and goals in part one of this interview. In part two, we chat to Jackie Burger, founder of Salon 58, about the collection and conscious consumerism. Jackie Burger Can you please explain how the partnership between Salon 58 and H&M&#x2019;s Conscious Exclusive collection came about? H&M South Africa spokesperson Amelia-May Franken attended a Salon 58 soiree in 2016 and noted synergistic and aligned brand values relevant to the H&M Conscious Exclusive Collection - both brands seeking to improve awareness about conscious consumption and sustainable design choices. My personal style narrative underwrites authentic self expression and purposeful dressing devoid of empty-headed and mindless consumption &#x2013; a point of view that I impart and contextualise at Salon 58 soirees as well as personal style consultation sessions with my clients. The collection encapsulated beautifully designed and considered garments, all made from recycled textiles offering the consumer thoughtful pieces in both the manufacturing and aesthetic value equations relevant to sustainable consumption. How do you create more consciously for Salon 58? Working with immensely aware and creative co-creators, the Salon 58 mandate is always to find content and inspiration in the unexpected and sometimes ordinary. Our #Magic salon soiree in 2015 showcased upcycled and reworked archived South African designer garments and in 2016 we explored the virtues of wardrobe staples such as basic denim and the classic white shirt, creating a interactive style platform for our audience to paricipate in the dialogue of empowered style that is manifested in considered choices and an articulated sense of self. In addition we strive to offer content themes that are thought provoking and a stimulating salon experience that will shift sometimes habitual thinking relating to the world at large. How feasible is it that more and more big brands start creating more consciously? It is indeed a challenge of note but it has to become part of a business strategy and conscious brand footprint. A sustainably produced product is a collective responsibility; but, it extends beyond production only &#x2013; it involves texchnology, recycling and upcycling initiatives and marketing campaigns to encourage consumers to actively engage in sustainable consumption. How does a more conscious way of creating fashion play out with the current trend of fast fashion? It becomes a responsible choice and a future investment &#x2013; both the supplier and the end consumer can shift expectation and behaviour depending on our vested interest in eco-friendly and thoughtful consumption. Can sustainable practises really make any significant environmental difference with the increasingly high volume of garments created by big retailers? Once again, I look at this as a challenge we all face and need to mobilise &#x2013; take collective responsibility to think differently and more openly about our future. We know for a fact that unless we take on environmental responsibility, our children will not have clean water and air to name a few. Acknowledging that we can actively do something and make a shift is the first very important investment in creating a spirit of conscious consumption and eco-optimism. Salon 58 Website www.salon58.co.za Facebook @jackieburgersalon58 Instagram @jackieburger Twitter @Jackie_Burger H&M Website: www.hm.com/za Facebook: @southafricahm Instagram: @hm Twitter: @hmsouthafrica