Kabelo NcholoOrganised by CADEK Media, the Marketing Indaba will take place at the Garden Court Hotel in Cape Town on 10 and 11 May 2017 and the Wanderers Club in Johannesburg on 24 and 25 May 2017. Through the Marketing Indaba, the various delegates, who are mostly in the media and marketing sphere &#x2013; including marketing directors and managers, account executives, representatives of PR and advertising agencies, brand managers as well as event and conference organisers among numerous others - will gain a wealth of knowledge and insight into the latest marketing trends and ideas. Now in its seventh year, the two-day conference promises to inform and inspire both the professional marketer as well as those keen to get fresh, new ideas on marketing their products and services. It also offers great networking opportunities for marketers. Kabelo will be one of over 15 industry leaders and speakers to make presentations at the Marketing Indaba. His talk, which will take place on 11 May in Cape Town and 25 May in Johannesburg, will provide insight into low income markets in Africa, the township economy and how to market to low income groups. Kabelo will further highlight that low-income markets in Africa present a massive profit-making opportunity and note that people in township and rural areas are seeking convenience in shopping, value for money and cultural relevance. He will highlight four key points for brands and organisations when targeting low income groups. These include that township and rural communities are highly aspirational and that having an Emotional Selling Point (ESP) is key in this market. He will also emphasise the importance of producing high quality products for second economy or lower-end consumers as they have limited spending power and can&#x2019;t afford financial loss, while also touching on the importance of running a tailor-made communication strategy for this market that considers different languages and cultures. Operating since 2004, Yourself Management has extensive experience in providing marketing services to low income groups. Up until this year, the agency focused on creating excellent campaigns for the township market, priding itself on being &#x201c;Leaders in the Township Market&#x201d;. In 2017, the agency has positioned itself as being &#x201c;Leaders in the African Market&#x201d; and is putting greater emphasis on amplifying its services throughout the Sub-Saharan region. Yourself Management currently employs over 300 staff operating throughout the Southern African Development Community. The agency runs an average of 30 campaigns annually and prides itself on being the preferred supplier for some reputable blue chip companies such as Tiger Brands, Nestle, L&#x2019;Or al and Platco Digital (etv) among others. For more information on Yourself Management, contact: (011) 467 1005 or visit: www.yourselfmanagement.co.za