Stephen Gersowsky, CEO, Jamie's Italian SAGersowsky has worked in the food and hospitality industry for close to 24 years, both as a restaurateur entrepreneur and also a developer and motivator for many brands we all know and have come to love. During the early days of his career, Gersowsky worked closely with the Panarottis franchise, as the regional operations manager for Gauteng before becoming chief operations director for a small restaurant group based in Johannesburg - which saw him handling between 40 to 50 restaurants. An international taste of the business Seeking new adventure and an international taste of the business, Gersowsky set his eyes on London where he landed up working for a contemporary Belgium restaurant group which saw him assisting in the opening of a host of restaurants and contributing to their brand development. After a few years in the UK, Gersowsky came back home and opened a restaurant called Zero 932, which was a high-end contemporary Belgium restaurant, similar to what he had worked on in the UK. Setting his eyes on bigger plans, Gersowsky along with his brother took over La Cuccina restaurant located in Hout Bay, eight years ago, while simultaneously starting a hospitality consulting group with strategic alliances in Singapore, Sydney, and Dubai, primarily working on restaurants and caf s. The aim was to take brands from SA and Australia and develop them in the Middle East. When asked who he admires Gersowsky, replied: &#x201c;Mentorship comes in different guises. The key thing is to keep learning. I draw inspiration, leadership, and mentorship from a whole host of people from all industries. I look up to people who can grow and develop my ability to lead, to inspire and to give purpose to myself and in turn provide purpose to others. My 10-year-old is probably more of a role model to me than anyone else.&#x201d; Jamie's Italian Kitchen now open in JohannesburgJamie Oliver, celebrity chef and food campaigner, and Whisky Creek Brands have opened the South African Jamie's Italian restaurant in the vibrant Melrose Arch Boulevard, north of Johannesburg.15 Dec 2016 It's more than a restaurant, it's a persona Gersowsky explains, &#x201c;Jamie&#x2019;s Italian is more than a restaurant to me. It&#x2019;s about the persona of the brand. It&#x2019;s about the culture and food ethos that encompasses this restaurant. I love the ideology, integrity, and philosophy of Jamie&#x2019;s Italian. At Jamie&#x2019;s we are able to work with seasonal produce, smaller farmers, trace the origins of products, organic and free range, and truly understand the originality of Italian cuisine and its flexibility,&#x201d; explains Gersowsky.