 photka via 123RF.comJasco Carrier Solutions provides full turnkey solutions to Tier 1 and Tier 2 telecommunication operators, including equipment and services related to transmission, access, and core networks. Equipment and the support thereof range from wireless systems such as Wi-Fi, 4G, 5G, small cell and microwave solutions, to wired line services such as fibre, Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) and broadband. &#x201c;Africa is becoming more fibre oriented and much of East Africa is behind in terms of fibre deployments, despite the fact that several undersea fibre cable operators terminate into countries such as Kenya,&#x201d; says Martin Ferreira, executive head: Jasco Carrier Solutions. He continues: &#x201c;There is a general move in the East African region towards improving their broadband footprint and extending these fast fibre capacities inland. Our carrier solutions are geared towards enabling this growth.&#x201d; Focussing on offering DWDM fibre optic Operating out of Kenya, it will be focussing on offering DWDM fibre optic solutions as well as Outside Plant (OSP) products. The latter includes distribution boxes, fibre tails, connectors and other accoutrements that are required when deploying a fibre network. There will also be a strong focus on technologies such as software-defined networking (SDN) and network function virtualisation (NFV), which will further support connectivity in East African countries. Ferreira explains, &#x201c;East Africa is geared to leapfrog the rest of the world with the implementation of new technologies as they roll out their connectivity. Due to bandwidth landing on their shores, their broadband services should be fast and effective &#x2013; they just need a way to distribute it to businesses and residential areas further inland.&#x201d; Virtual building blocks NFV is a network architecture concept that uses IT virtualisation to create virtual building blocks that are easily connected to create end-to-end communication services. Coupled with SDN (software that runs on top of a customers&#x2019; existing services and premises and requires less storage space and hardware), these technologies will allow East African countries to implement connectivity solutions simpler, faster and more cost effectively. To enable East Africa to make the leap from today&#x2019;s disconnected landscape to tomorrow&#x2019;s fast broadband delivery capability, Jasco&#x2019;s expansion of carrier services to East Africa will also address the local skills shortages and create a base for supporting infrastructure locally.