South Africa&#x2019;s largest regional commercial radio station, KZN-based Gagasi FM, has joined forces with Loeries Africa Middle East as the Official Radio Partner. With a reach of over 1.4 million listeners comprising primarily of urban black young adults, the partnership will be highly instrumental in communicating and encouraging young creatives to take up successful careers in the brand communications industry. &#x201c;This is our third year of being hosted by the city of Durban and to solidify our relationship with KZN, we saw it fit to partner with a local radio station that sits on the pulse of the young and vibrant people in this region. We are excited to see what new life Gagasi FM will breathe into this partnership with us,&#x201d; says Loeries CEO, Andrew Human. In addition to sponsoring the Radio award category, Gagasi FM will also be the official radio broadcaster for Loeries Creative Week Durban this year and will host the legendary Chairman&#x2019;s Welcome Party which will take place on Friday, 18 August. &#x201c;As Gagasi FM we are very delighted to be the official radio category partner for the Loeries. As a KZN-based station this partnership is key for us to showcase our authentic local feel to the delegates. The alignment with the Loeries gives us a direct interaction with the trade community within the creative industry, in our home ground. As a commercial radio platform, celebrating creative excellence in the brand communication industry is of the utmost importance. This partnership also talks to the direction we are taking as a business, going forward, in terms of strengthening our commercial value and taking the brand to new heights,&#x201d; says Gagasi FM Head of Brand, Phinda Magwaza. Gagasi FM will be broadcasting live from the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre during Loeries Creative Week, keeping listeners tuned into all major events and activities taking place in Durban including the DStv International Seminar of Creativity, Loeries MasterClasses, the Loeries Fringe Festival and the glamour of the red carpet, as well as the awards ceremonies. Loeries Creative Week Durban takes place from Monday, 14 August to Monday, 21 August 2017. EXTENDED DEADLINE for entries into Loeries 2017 is 31 May. For more information, visit loeries.com About Loeries Africa Middle East The Loeries , a non-profit company, is Africa and the Middle East&#x2019;s premiere initiative that recognises, rewards, inspires and fosters creative excellence in the brand communication industry. As the highest accolade for creativity and innovation across our region, the Loeries promotes and supports creativity by helping marketers, agencies and consumers appreciate the value of ideas and fresh thinking. Culminating in the biggest creative gathering in Africa and the Middle East, Loeries Creative Week&#x2122; Durban brings together the best innovative minds from our industry for a festival of networking, inspiring minds and recognising great work. Our region's creative economy is world-class and has great potential to grow and to offer employment both to our talented youth. The growth occurring throughout Africa and the Middle East is very exciting, and a major focus of the Loeries is to increase the standard of brand communication in the region. Major partners of the Loeries 2017 Tourism KwaZulu-Natal (TKZN), the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, KwaZulu-Natal Province (EDTEA), eThekwini Municipality &#x2013; Durban Tourism, DStv Media Sales, Gearhouse Group Category partners Accenture, Channel O, Facebook, Gagasi FM, Google, JCDecaux, SANBS, The Times, Unilever South Africa, Woolworths Additional partners and official suppliers AAA School of Advertising, Antalis South Africa, Aon South Africa, Association of Practitioners in Advertising, Backsberg, BEE Online, Circus Circus Beach Caf , DDB South Africa, First Source, Fresh RSVP Guest Logistics, Funk Productions, Gallo Images, Graphica, Grid Worldwide, HelloCrowd, Hetzner, Multiprint Litho, Newsclip, Paygate, Paul Shiakallis Photography, Rocketseed, Scan Display, Shift Social Development, South African Airways, Total Exposure, Tsogo Sun, Vega School, VQI Official media partners Between 10and5, Bizcommunity.com, Book of Swag, Campaign Middle East, CliffCentral.com, Coloribus Advertising Archive, Film & Event Media, Goliath and Goliath, iDidTht.com, Leading Architecture and Design, Marketing Edge Nigeria, Marketing Africa, Media Update, The Redzone, YouTube