The event offers &#x2018;best-in-class&#x2019; experience with a rich tapestry of fashion, couture, fine wines, artisanal cocktail bars, delicious dining and picnic options, live music and entertainment, VIP lounges, a luxury vehicle display, dressage, showjumping and much more. Steyn City CEO, Giuseppe Plumari expressed that this sophisticated annual event is a powerful, unique, social and corporate platform which will attract both local and international captains of industry from across various walks of life including celebrities and VIP guests and we are delighted to welcome them to our beautiful sanctuary. Steve Swanepoel, CEO of Le Mag Publications Group and publisher of Le Kap magazine further explains that he is very delighted to host the event in association with Steyn City and the partnership between Le Kap Lifestyle Fair and Steyn City will set a new luxury lifestyle benchmark for those who embrace the finer things in life. The Le Kap brand has become synonymous with luxury, fashion, style and celebrities which attracts a jubilee of multimedia recognition and Steyn City lends itself perfectly to such elements. The event will feature:A fashion show: International fashion brands, as well as leading South African fashion designers, will again be exhibiting their latest collections on the catwalk during this occasion. Live music: Caitlin De Ville, the sensational electric violinist, will be entertaining Le Kap guests as well as Mr. Brown the music stylist who will dish out some delectable soulful tunes behind the decks. Wines and beverages: At least 10 premier South African wine estates will be offering complimentary wine tastings throughout the day. Event attendees will also be able to purchase wine to take home, at cellar door prices, directly from the wine estates. Cash bars for speciality artisanal cocktails, spirits and craft beer will also be available. Food: Several celebrity chefs will each be afforded a 45-minute slot to showcase the preparation of their signature dishes. Equestrian: Another highlight of the 2017 Le Kap Lifestyle Fair will be a magnificent display of horsemanship in the exciting 6-Bar jumping competition, as well as a speed course presented by the Steyn City Equestrian Centre. VVIP Guests: special packages available. Gala Dinner: R 2,000.00 per person (limited availability). An exclusive 5-course Gourmand dinner, prepared by a celebrated master chef, will take place on Friday, 9 June 2017 as a precursor to this opulent event. The five-course dinner menu will be perfectly paired with a selection of premium wines. Details are to be announced on the event website and various social media platforms. Dinner bookings available from: www.ticketpros.co.za Ticketing: Starts from R 450 up to R 4500 per person. Book on Ticketpros. </li></li></li></li></li></li></li> For more info on the event, click here.