#OneShow2017: Final night's winnersWinners of the final 7 categories of the 44th One Show Awards have been announced at Cipriani Wall Street, with SA responsible for a further 6 bronze, 1 silver and 1 gold pencil, which was also crowned best of discipline' for radio, as well as 10 merit awards - this puts us in 10th best country ranking...13 May 2017 Pre- and post-production companies and the recording studios where the magic happens don&#x2019;t usually get to bask in the limelight of big award wins like the One Show, sometimes not even receiving recognition for the work they put into those campaigns the nation loves. 7Films&#x2019; executive producer Lourens van Rensburg and producer Nina van Rensburg worked with agency Y&R Cape Town on their One Show Pencil-winning campaign work for Surf Shack. A Good Drowning was directed by Shane Knock with Michael Hare as DP, Dead Fish Eyes was directed and DPed by Dirk van Niekerk, while Chasing the Dragon was directed by Siphiwe &#x2018;SJ&#x2019; Myeza with Kabeer Shaik as DP&#x2026; Congratulations! Talk us through the way our creative industry collaborates and gets the job done. Our industry is changing, fast and we think for the right reasons and in the right directions. Think that the lines between a conventional agency and conventional production house is obviously getting blurred; and we believe as long as it is for the better of the end product, that&#x2019;s good. We have always had a motto where we partner with agencies instead of just being a sub-buyer. We think that especially with good work, these days you have to collaborate and pitch in. In other words, the agency goes way above the call of duty of what their responsibilities are on the production side, and as a production company we do the same; we get involved and help out a lot more than what we normally would get tasked to do. In this case it was amazing, we have an amazing relationship like that with Y&R Cape Town. #Loeries2016: Loeries' rankings with Y&RJust when you thought the Loeries buzz was over, the Loeries' rankings are in! I chatted to some of this year's top ranked creatives post-celebrations. Here, some of Y&R South Africa and Africa's brightest stars share their views...By Leigh Andrews 11 Nov 2016 Both entities are passionate about doing really good work, specifically things that really matter and that has changed at the end of the day &#x2013; social awareness is close to our heart and we loved working with the agency. Getting into the nitty-gritty, elaborate on your involvement in this specific winning work. On our flight from Johannesburg, we saw on social media the print campaign done by Y&R for Surf Shack, they were basically posters. The main thing that caught our eye, the genius and beauty that we saw, was the writing. We had fallen in love with the words immediately. So we tracked it down and found out that Patrick was the writer, the genius behind it, and we obviously have a long-standing relationship with Y&R so we contacted them to see if there was a way to bring these stories to life in the medium of film. Images supplied. Images supplied. Images supplied. Images supplied. Images supplied. I felt like they needed to be told and so we pitched the idea to them that we would do three different films with three different directors but for the same client and they loved the idea, and that&#x2019;s how we got involved. This was a great opportunity for us &#x2013; for our young directors to show off their ability and their skill. It was shot over December, edited in January and on air shortly after that. Share your opinion on SA&#x2019;s quality of creative work overall, especially as we ended up in 10th country ranking spot at the One Show with a gold and best of discipline in radio. It&#x2019;s obviously amazing that we do so well in radio, but I think it&#x2019;s frustrating for all of us that we can&#x2019;t translate that into some of the other categories within award shows. Our success in radio proves that that there is amazing talent within the agencies. If we were in the position to financially take some of the film ideas to where they need to be, it would be amazing, but we do fight an uphill battle against the giants in America and Europe. They have currency in their favour, especially on the really big ideas whereas radio tends to be more of an equaliser when it comes to money &#x2013; talent is much more of a contributing factor when it comes to radio. All of us would like to see that we do better at the stuff we are not so good at. Images supplied. Images supplied. Images supplied. Images supplied. Images supplied. What are you most looking forward to from the rest of the year&#x2019;s award circuit, with Cannes Lions around the corner and Loeries just a few months away? Yes, we are hoping to do well as a company at Cannes and as well as a country. We need our young directors to do well on a global stage. It is so important for their careers both internationally and locally. So yes, Cannes is very important to us and with the Loeries around the corner; we have some new work coming up &#x2013; we are always excited about that and happy to go to Durban. As are we! Keep an eye on our Loeries special section for the latest updates and revisit our One Show special section for key interviews, insights and accolades.