Prominent Paints brand marketing manager, Lani Carstens says, &#x201c;The concept is bringing something new and fresh to the retail experience in areas that traditionally have been lacking when it comes to DIY paint specialist centres. The customer-centric approach of the store will ensure customers do not leave without being equipped with the knowledge they need to solve their specific paint problem.&#x201d; The adapted containers are sturdy, durable, portable and easy to install and the team broke ground in preparation for installation in March. The entire construction and setting up process took less than a month. The ground floor is dedicated to retail while the top floor has a restaurant and a business centre that offers business services to entrepreneurs. Growing enterprise development A collaborative venture between Prominent Paints, its BEE partner Africa&#x2019;s Got-Game and PPC Cement, the project is the first of its kind in South Africa and will contribute towards enterprise development of informal traders within the paint and construction industry, while offering training and education to members of the community. Developed to address the challenges of inequality, unskilled youth and SMME development within South Africa, the programme&#x2019;s focus is directed at township revitalisation. Parallel to this, it is growing the building and construction industry by delivering products and services to the doorsteps of communities. The BuildersBox containerised solution will not only be a formal trading structure but also a training facility for local youth and members of the construction industry. Industry experts approved and appointed by Prominent Paints and PPC will present the practical training, which is free to the community. As with all its training, Prominent Paints will push the message that regardless of the colour or the finish selected &#x2013; surface preparation is the most important step in any DIY painting process. Inside #TheBuildersBox you will find everything you need to build your dream. pic.twitter.com/aZf4ecZ9CE&#x2014; PPC (@PPCisCement) May 5, 2017 Carstens says that training and developing people from the community to run and work in the retail outlet is an important part of the project&#x2019;s success and this education will go beyond paint, product and DIY skills. &#x201c;It will extend to include business management skills critical to the successful operation of a startup business operation such as this. It is also expected that through education and a presence in the area, consumers will be exposed to cost-effective ways in which to add colour to their communities and to make it better in every sense of the word.&#x201d; &#x201c;An unknown territory and not a market that we are familiar with, we are conscious that these untapped areas carry great potential despite the challenges associated with entering these new areas,&#x201d; says Carstens. &#x201c;Not just an opportunity to tap into the immense buying power of this market, it also presents an ideal and exclusive opportunity for Prominent Paints to invest in and develop the communities in which we introduce the BuildersBox concept.&#x201d; Ready for success Backed by coating manufacturers, PPG, the value-added product offering includes a range of quality paint systems and paint accessories, professional &#x2018;on trend&#x2019; colour advice, free quotations, as well as a delivery service. &#x201c;We focus on the needs of consumers, helping them to choose the right product fit for their needs that is superior in quality and good value for money; that is the formula for our success. The BuildersBox solution is another vehicle for us to deliver on these ideals and there is no doubt that we are making communities better through this partnered social development initiative,&#x201d; concludes Carstens.