Findings are based on actual salary offerings posted between October 2016 and March 2017 on CareerJunction, one of SA&#x2019;s leading online job boards, where over 20,000 jobs are posted monthly. The review focuses only on the top 10 most sought-after sectors in South Africa and reveals regional pay gaps for many sectors across Gauteng, the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. The sectors covered include: Comparing salary offerings from a year ago, slight increases are evident across most industries. Regionally, Gauteng remains at the forefront of market demand and therefore also remains at the top of the pay scale, especially within the fields of engineering, finance, construction and logistics, where differences in earnings seem to be more striking. When taking a closer look at the salary findings, best paid workers across the 10 analysed sectors seem to be those in the fields of ICT, finance and engineering, more specifically civil/structural engineers, mechanical engineers, technical and business architects, IT project managers, corporate lending specialists, financial analysts as well as financial and IT managers. Demand for architecture and engineering professionals is particularly high in Gauteng where about 50% of sector-related recruitment takes place. On the other end of the spectrum, workers in the fields of admin, office & support, manufacturing & assembly, and warehousing & logistics are the lower earners. ICT skills remain among SA&#x2019;s most sought-after skill sets, particularly software development. Year-on year, steady increases of between 5% and 10% in salary offerings are evident across most ICT occupations. However, salaries for intermediate developers, project managers and system & network administrators, as well as senior business architects and IT managers, saw a considerable jump of more than 20% in salary offerings during this period. A similar trend is notable within the financial, sales and manufacturing sectors where salaries increased considerably for finance managers, travel agents, telesales & telemarketing consultants, sales managers, distribution/courier workers and logistics managers year -on-year. You can view/download the full 2017 Salary Review here - http://www.careerjunction.co.za/#salaryreview.