For the past ten years, the Loeries have been giving hope to aspiring creative students from across the country through the Loeries Creative Future Scholarship. Four dynamic KwaZulu-Natal students were awarded the unique scholarship in August 2016. They were recently recognised and handed their scholarships in front of learners from their former respective high schools. Samukelisiwe Faku from Inanda Newtown Comprehensive, Londeka Gumede and Roxanne Schoon both of Durban Girls High, and Mali Khuzwayo from Mowat Park High, have been given the opportunity to realise their creative dreams and pursue their studies at Vega School Durban this year. Unlike many scholarships in the country, the Loeries Creative Future Scholarship, currently in partnership with Vega School Durban, covers everything including tuition fees, study materials, transport, accommodation and living expenses. The scholarship also offers mentorship, internships and employment into the brand communications industry once studies are complete. &#x201c;Nothing is more important than developing young creative minds and we are proud to be contributing to the growth of the industry by helping these youngsters achieve a tertiary education. The free mind is the lifeblood of creativity and in the last ten years the Loeries Creative Future Scholarship has endeavoured to minimise the limitations that come with giving talented individuals an opportunity to flourish. We&#x2019;re only getting started,&#x201d; says Loeries CEO Andrew Human. MD of Vega School, Shevon Lurie, adds, &#x201c;Vega School celebrates creativity in design, brand communication and business. Having the Loeries Creative Future Scholarship partnership is a natural synergy to grow and support talent entering the brand communication industry. The Creative Future Scholarship is a dual partnership between Vega School and the Loeries with the aim to financially and academically support young creative in need demonstrating great potential in becoming the next generation of creative directors. The Loeries and Vega School have a long-standing relationship with the scholarship affirming our shared values.&#x201d; Loeries Creative Future Scholarship applications for 2018 are now open. Grade 12 students, exclusively to KwaZulu-Natal, are encouraged to apply to stand a chance to join the list of young South Africans who have become the alumni of this initiative and have gone on to establish burgeoning careers in the brand communications industry. Please note: Only Grade 12 learners in KwaZulu-Natal, who come from a disadvantaged background, will be eligible for this year&#x2019;s scholarship. The deadline for applications is Thursday, 15 June 2017. For more information on how to apply for the Loeries Creative Future Scholarship, visit loeries.com. About Loeries Africa Middle East The Loeries , a non-profit company, is Africa and the Middle East&#x2019;s premiere initiative that recognises, rewards, inspires and fosters creative excellence in the brand communication industry. As the highest accolade for creativity and innovation across our region, the Loeries promotes and supports creativity by helping marketers, agencies and consumers appreciate the value of ideas and fresh thinking. Culminating in the biggest creative gathering in Africa and the Middle East, Loeries Creative Week&#x2122; Durban brings together the best innovative minds from our industry for a festival of networking, inspiring minds and recognising great work. Our region's creative economy is world-class and has great potential to grow and to offer employment both to our talented youth. The growth occurring throughout Africa and the Middle East is very exciting, and a major focus of the Loeries is to increase the standard of brand communication in the region. Major Partners of the Loeries 2017 Tourism KwaZulu-Natal (TKZN), the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, KwaZulu-Natal Province (EDTEA), eThekwini Municipality &#x2013; Durban Tourism, DStv Media Sales. Category Partners Accenture, Channel O, Facebook, Gagasi FM, Google, JCDecaux, SANBS, The Times, Unilever South Africa, Woolworths. Additional Partners and Official Suppliers AAA School of Advertising, Antalis South Africa, Aon South Africa, Association of Practitioners in Advertising, Backsberg, BEE Online, Circus Circus Beach Caf , DDB South Africa, First Source, Fresh RSVP Guest Logistics, Funk Productions, Gallo Images, Graphica, Grid Worldwide, HelloCrowd, Hetzner, Multiprint Litho, Newsclip, Paygate, Paul Shiakallis Photography, Rocketseed, Scan Display, Shift Social Development, South African Airways, Total Exposure, Tsogo Sun, Vega School, VQI. Official Media Partners Between 10and5, Bizcommunity.com, Book of Swag, Campaign Middle East, CliffCentral.com, Coloribus Advertising Archive, Film & Event Media, Goliath and Goliath, iDidTht.com, Leading Architecture and Design, Marketing Edge Nigeria, Marketing Africa, Media Update, The Redzone, YouTube.