olegdudko 123RF.comThis year, the focus of the Sikuvile Journalism Awards is on the value and importance of journalism, as we find ourselves living in a period where there has been a breakdown in the trust between the media and its audience. The Brexit campaign and the US elections bear witness to how facts can be considered mere opinions and lies, an alternative point of view. This serves to emphasis the importance of Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards. The following prizes will be awarded: Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Award of R15,000 cash, a trophy and a certi&#xfb01;cateStandard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Finalist Certi&#xfb01;catesCommendation Certi&#xfb01;cates may be awarded at the judges&#x2019; discretionThe judging panel, headed by convener judge, Mathatha Tsedu, comprises experts in the industry, including Dinesh Balliah, Gus Silber, Henry Jeffreys, Mike Siluma, Tyrone August, Phil Mtimkulu, Pippa Green, Tim du Plessis, Liesl Louw-Vaudram, Thabo Leshilo, Mary Papayya, Ryland Fisher and Neo Ntsoma. This year the Awards are also opened to non- Publishers Support Services (PSS) members. The fee per entry is R580 a slight increase on last year. (A reduced amount will be considered, if a freelancer motivates why he/she should pay a reduced fee.) Allan Kirkland Soga Achievement Award The Awards have also introduced the Allan Kirkland Soga Achievement Award. Named after the historical journalistic &#xfb01;gure, Allan Kirkland Soga, the honour recognises a sustained and extraordinary contribution to newspaper journalism on the part of an individual. The winner will have demonstrated impeccable ethics and craft excellence. The results will have enriched South African public life. Where the person&#x2019;s accomplishment has been achieved in the face of obstacles, this will add to the nominee&#x2019;s ratings. The nomination should be in the form of a written letter (or letters) of recommendation. The information should address the reasons why the nominee is deserving of this recognition. Additional supporting materials (testimonials/press cuttings) are welcomed. No entry fee or entry form is required for this award. Please note that the individual&#x2019;s accomplishment should have been over a career of at least 20 years in journalism (judges are not eligible for nomination). The winner will receive the Allan Kirkland Soga Achievement Award trophy and certi&#xfb01;cate. Other awards The Frewin competition has been in existence for the past 68 years and recognises urban daily newspapers with a circulation above 50,000 that excel in the criteria laid down by the industry. The McCall competition has been in existence for the past 56 years and recognises urban daily newspapers with a circulation of 50,000 or less that excel in the criteria laid down by the industry. Please note that McCall entrants do not qualify for entry into the Frewin competition. The Mervis competition has been in existence for the past 22 years and recognises urban weekly newspapers irrespective of their circulation that excel in the criteria laid down by the industry. This competition is limited to weekly newspapers which have separate teams which produce it. Entries may be sent by registered post, courier or hand-delivered to The Standard Bank Sikuvile Journalism Awards, Lionel Jeffries (lionel@pdmedia.org.za), PSS, First &#xfb02;oor, Unit 8 Burnside Island Of&#xfb01;ce Park Craighall Park.