Then, of course, the industry can't seem to get the numbers right. AMPS has gone and there is a deluge of spurious surveys doing the rounds. Will alcohol ads be banned? Will cannabis be legalised? Are 'health foods' really healthy? Will I really have to give the SABC even more money to waste because my cell phone can receive a satellite picture? (And, let's be honest, the 'local content' policy has been a financial disaster). Lordy, lordy, where is all the madness going to end? Well, there are a few things we can be sure of: the world of advertising, marketing and media has evolved tremendously and the pace of change is not slowing down! Brands and companies that want to be around in the future need to evolve with technology and make a shift in their marketing and advertising strategy. But how? A good start are the various conferences and seminars that are proving to be increasingly popular &#x2013; because it's vital that we all put our minds together, exchange ideas with each other and move forward. kr.co.za I've been asked to speak at one such event &#x2013; the Future of Advertising Conference &#x2013; which I think has great potential. What they're going to discuss covers a wide spectrum of the advertising, marketing and media industries. In my opinion, intelligent discourse together is the only way forward. Here's a brief synopsis of the subjects and speakers over the two days: 1. The evolution of advertising: A look at the past, present and future (That's me) 2. Adapting to the new world of fast content: Fast, cheap and good (Rita Doherty, Chief Strategic Director, FCB Africa) 3. The secrets of great advertising (Andrew Human, CEO, The Loeries) 4. What virtual reality will mean for advertising (Brad Reilly, Executive Creative Director, Net#work BBDO) 5. The age of collaboration &#x2013; how brands and agencies work together and reap great rewards (Ingrid Lotze, Past President-Elect, PRISA and Accredited Public Relations Practitioner) 6. Understanding the new consumer and media landscape (Matthew Arnold, Head of Media, Native VML) 7. The future of native advertising and partner content (Myles Brown, Head of Native, 24.com) 8. The possibilities of future feminine identities (Yasmin Kathoria, Business Humaniser, Innate Motion [Previous Global Brand Director, Unilever Brand] and Kanchana Moodliar, Business Humaniser & Partner, Innate Motion Africa) 9. Data at the forefront of advertising efforts (Serena Seunarain, Head of Reporting & Research, Artifact Advertising) 10. What is programmatic buying and why is it important? (Paula Raubenheimer, Head of Programmatic &#x2013; SouthernX, The SpaceStation) And then there are panel discussions: The future of advertising and brand building &#x2013; debating the key trends, challenges and burning issues. Perhaps I'll see you there? If you'd like to know more then it might be a good idea to take a look at their brochure. To book, simply contact Magdeline Matlatse: az.oc.serwonk&#64;eniledgam / 011 706 6009 *Note that Bizcommunity staff and management do not necessarily share the views of its contributors &#x2013; the opinions and statements expressed herein are solely those of the author.*