 Alexander Podrezov via 123RFThe KweseESPN digital products follow hot-on-the-heels of the exclusive 24-hour ESPN channel that launched on Kwes&eacute; TV earlier this year, and combines the strength of the digital sports publisher (ESPN), with African sports coverage from Africa&rsquo;s fastest growing sports broadcaster. KweseESPN.com together with the KweseESPN App (on Android and iOS) offers coverage and digital highlights of the widest selection of sports from Africa and around the world -- anywhere, anytime. African fans will find up-to-the-minute news, scores, analysis video and more for dozens of sports, including Football, Basketball, Cricket, Rugby, Boxing, MMA, Motorsports including F1, Indy500, Athletics, Tennis, the best in American sports such as the NFL, MLB, NHL and much more &ndash; all with a uniquely African perspective. KweseESPN also brings fans unique content specially created for African sports fans like the &ldquo;African All-Stars&rdquo; section, devoted to news and stories about African sports stars competing all around the world and extensive coverage of African football, rugby, basketball, netball and cricket leagues which include live scores, highlights and previews.&nbsp; Led and curated by a team of editors across the continent, KweseESPN combines Kwes&eacute;&rsquo;s reporting from across Africa and rapidly growing suite of sports rights with ESPN&rsquo;s international coverage, featuring many of the continent and the world&rsquo;s best sports journalists. Econet Media President and CEO, Joseph Hundah, said of the new KweseESPN digital products: &ldquo;We are taking sports coverage to a whole new level by delivering a dedicated digital destination which offers coverage at a standard not seen in Africa before. The combination of this website and our comprehensive sports broadcast offering through the ESPN channel, Kwes&eacute; Sports 1 &amp; 2 and Kwes&eacute; Free Sports establishes Kwes&eacute; as a leading sports destination in Africa.&rdquo; He added, &ldquo;The synergies between these two sports power houses have resulted in a game changing proposition for African sports fans. This winning combination will allow for unprecedented digital coverage of events like the NBA and FIFA World Cup. &ldquo;The recent Anthony Joshua World Heavyweight title fight is an example of how the combination of Kwes&eacute; Sports and ESPN were able to take major sports events to another level for African sports fans. We look forward to deepening this relationship for the benefit of our viewers and sports fans across the continent.&rdquo; Video will play a growing role on both KweseESPN.com and the KweseESPN app &ndash; including highlights from Kwes&eacute;&rsquo;s growing portfolio of rights including South American and European football, NBA, cricket, rugby, athletics, boxing, NFL, MLB and more. And both KweseESPN.com and KweseESPN App feature easy one-touch access to the Kwes&eacute; TV everywhere app and live streaming sports. &ldquo;Nobody covers the news, events and the &lsquo;Game-around-the-Game&rsquo; of worldwide sport the way ESPN does,&rdquo; added Patrick Stiegman, vice president, global digital content, ESPN. &ldquo;That is now blended with Kwes&eacute;&rsquo;s uniquely African coverage, expertise and insight. The result is the best digital home for African sports fans. Whether on a phone, tablet or computer, on the Web or on the app, they can get live scores, news, highlights, features, statistics and more.&rdquo;