Offlimit Communication, aptly recoined as OLC, has enjoyed well over a decade breaking barriers and submerging consumers in first of its kind unforgettable experiences as one of Africa's most renowned BTL/ experiential agencies. OLC has a brand new homeOLC has now moved into its own space in Sandton, in a brand-newly built office that is exclusively owned by the agency. The creative space (housed in Impala Office Park), was built from scratch and deliberately designed to inspire the creative clan of team OLC. Change and keeping on the innovative pulse has always been a priority for the agency, so in addition to a world class website makeover, the company is undergoes this milestone move to new premises in line with its many exciting changes. &#x201c;We are thrilled to have built and have ownership of a space that is perfectly tailored to the needs and ethos of OLC - that being optimised creativity, productivity and kick-ass execution. It will definitely reinforce our established leading position in our own space but most importantly keeping our OLC familly spirit high. "The eco-friendly office park and this new office was deliberately designed and fitted to optimise the lifestyle-centric approach the agency prides itself in. To be frank, we owe our amazing team this new slick space,&#x201d; commented Jerome Cohen, MD at OLC. In the last two years OLC has doubled its revenue and attracted in-house talents of industry specialists and game-changers. This exponential growth of the agency can be attributed to their groundbreaking horizontal approach, resulting in a massive increase in their client base. If the bigger space is anything to go by, 2017 will be their most successful year yet! "It's been a crazy time, but we have always managed to keep the balance. We believe in working hard, but true to our ethos of 'living in the next', we have invested and continue to shift the paradigm of optimising potential in our carefully designed space. Yoga and meditation will now be part of our weekly routine, so we needed a space to accommodate this balance," commented Jerome Cohen, MD at OLC. OLC is set to launch the space and introduce clients and friends in the industry to the creative hub early June. Dion Chang, a globally recognised authority in trend forecasting and style, will be the keynote speaker at the launch.