Savanna Presents River Republic Held on the banks of the Breede River, Savanna Presents River Republic will take place on Friday, 24 November 2017 &#x2013; Sunday, 26 November 2017 and will showcase some of the most loved local musicians, both DJs and bands. Artists announced so far: Nomadic Orchestra, Mobbing Bali, Jak Skandi and MT Seas. More artist announcements to be made during the month of May. Festival ticket prices: Full Weekend: R860 Sat-Sun only: R610 *Both options include a cold Savanna on arrival! Kids 12 & Over: R350 All tickets include a camping spot. If you are interested in chalet accommodation: A-Frame Chalet (sleeps 2): R2,900 A-Frame Chalet (sleeps 4): R5,200 Aloe Ridge Luxury House (sleeps 4): R6,800 *All prices exclude booking fees. Visit the ticket page for all tickets and the River Republic website for more information on the event. Social media: Facebook page Twitter page Instagram: @riverrepublic_festival Up the Creek Since the summer of 1990, the Up The Creek festival has been hosted at Up The Creek River Camp, set between a dirt road and the welcoming waters of the Breede River. With various stages, including the unique river stage at the water`s edge, you are guaranteed to be entertained throughout the weekend. Although Rock &#x2019;n Roll is the original stamp of choice, there are also different types of music mixed into the line-up including pop, some indie folk, a couple of DJ acts and the odd violin solo on top of a kombi! Jeffrey the Jam Van will be on standby to entertain you before the Main Stage kicks off and the Sedgwick`s Old Brown Food Court stage will be running in the mornings and afternoons to showcase new and upcoming artists. While the festival is one of the few remaining that still allows you to camp next to your car (should you choose) there is also a greener campsite where no cars are allowed or you can book pre-pitched tented accommodation on the Heartbreak Motel website. Festival ticket prices Ticket price: R1,030 (excluding booking fees) &#x2013; only full weekend tickets available. Buy tickets here by clicking here. No under 18s. Social media Artist announcements start in August. Keep an eye on social media: Facebook Twitter: @Upthe_Creek Instagram: @upthecreek_festival Visit the Up the Creek website for more information.