Royalty Free Photo The shift towards storytelling grants you a powerful internet marketing instrument that not many businesses utilise: your stories. As a business owner &#x2013; the man behind the brand &#x2013; you have a lot of interesting stories to tell. Blogging is the perfect way to deliver those stories. Why you need to start blogging As the founder and CEO of your business, you have plenty of first-hand stories to share. The products you&#x2019;re offering customers today started life as a simple idea. The journey towards turning those ideas into the products customers can touch and interact with is worth telling. Blogging as a CEO also personifies the brand. Larger companies are already doing this as part of their marketing campaigns. We instantly think of Steve Jobs (and now Tim Cook) whenever we read news about Apple. Jack Dorsey, Mark Zuckerberg, and other top names in tech are all associated with their businesses, and vice versa. The more people know about the face behind the brand, the easier it will be for them to connect with the brand. The experiences you share are capable of creating stronger bonds and attracting more potential customers. Converting that audience into customers will be so much easier when you already have a strong relationship. It&#x2019;s easy to get started Starting a blog as a CEO or founder of a business is easier than you think. Your business already has a website &#x2013; or even a blog section where you share valuable content the audience love to read &#x2013; so all you have to do is write your stories. You don't even have to do the writing yourself. Some services can help you produce great, compelling blog posts based on your experiences. You still have to provide an outline and other details about the post, but the actual writing is done by professionals with years of experience. Taking it a step further Posting stories is just one part of the equation. For this internet marketing approach to work beautifully, you need to invest a bit more time into connecting with your audience. Social media, another great internet marketing instrument to use, is perfect for this purpose. You can also invest in SEO. You want your stories to reach the right audience, and search engines are where most users find information. Programs such as the OMG Machines SEO program will help you get up to speed in no time at all. Last but not least, you need to invest in consistency. Content marketing and storytelling &#x2013; and of course internet marketing in general &#x2013; is never a one-time thing. You can't build relationships overnight. Keep sharing your insights, engage your audience through social media, and take advantage of other internet marketing tools to actually develop a strong image, both for the brand and yourself as the founder.