Situated in the Great Karoo about 40 minutes from Graaff-Reinet, Samara offers two five-star luxury lodges; the Karoo Lodge, a renovated farmstead and five individual en suite cottages and The Manor, an exclusive-use villa with private pool, chef, butler and ranger. Safari sunsets I was fortunate enough to spend three nights in one of the Karoo Lodge&#x2019;s beautiful Karoo suites. Tastefully decorated in an African and farm style aesthetic, we immediately felt at home and soon after check in welcomed the weekend with a glass of red on the porch with a brilliant sunset before us and the sounds of the bush around us. Welcome show after check in &#xfffd;&#xfffd; A post shared by Ruth Cooper (@remcoopkins) on May 11, 2017 at 9:00am PDT Samara is a 70,000 acre private game reserve and offers sightings of buck, giraffe, rhinos and cheetahs amongst many other wildlife. The land is slowly recovering from past over-farming and agriculture exploitation, however the aim is to create a self-sustaining eco-system and possibly introduce more animals such as lions and elephants at a later stage. Cubs and calf Each full day offers guests a morning and late afternoon game drive of three to four hours. We took advantage of three out of the four drives that we could fit in, choosing to sleep in late one morning. Guided by our excellent and knowledgeable ranger, Julius we spotted most of the big wildlife on offer. Even hopping out of the game drive vehicle to get pretty up close and cosy with a female cheetah and her cubs and white rhino mother and her calf on separate occasions. An incredibly rewarding, if slightly nerve-wracking experience. The last game drive of our stay saw us heading up the almost vertical mountain slopes and along the flat grasslands of Samara Mara mountain plateau offering sightings of black wildebeest, endangered Cape Mountain zebra, eland and gemsbok. Next stopping for photo ops against a backdrop of sheer heights and heart pumping views of the Camdeboo plains (those with vertigo might struggle with this one) before enjoying sundowners as the evening slowly crept in. FYI, the drive back down the sheer slopes in the dark, in an open game drive cruiser is an experience in itself, about as exhilarating as rollercoaster and far more fun. Favourable flavours In between game drives and general relaxing are the excellent meals, served either inside the Karoo Lodge or beneath the star lush skies and around a fire in the boma. The small menu changes each lunch and dinner while breakfast offers a continental spread plus special of the day and traditional fry up. Other lodges and accommodation could take note; even though Samara&#x2019;s menu is small with only a choice between two mains each night (unless other dietary requirements are specified) the dishes are classic and tasty comfort food with a South African twist. They may not offer a huge amount of options but they make sure whatever is offered is top quality. Some of my dining highlights include crusted chicken livers in a creamy sauce (and I don&#x2019;t even like chicken livers) melt in your mouth fillet, depthy mushroom soup and a creamy and zingy lemon tart with granadilla puree. Samara also offers custom activities; fancy sleeping under the stars or a wilderness picnic? This can all be arranged. View Samara&#x2019;s additional experiences here. Happy Wednesday! Tag someone you'd spend a night under the stars with in our #StarBed -------------------------------------------- &#xfffd;&#xfffd;: David Smith --------------------------------------------#SamaraKaroo #SafariForTheSoul A post shared by Samara Private Game Reserve (@samara_karoo) on Apr 11, 2017 at 11:57pm PDT Have a special occasion coming up? Samara is the perfect spot to celebrate an anniversary, engagement or honeymoon. View Samara&#x2019;s romantic packages here. For more info or to make a reservation, visit the Samara website.