 Yuliya Tsyhun 123RF.comMembers of ASAQS will benefit from international accreditation as well as the ability to work in the United Kingdom and elsewhere thanks to the MoU. &#x201c;Professionals in the South African quantity surveying industry provide world-class solutions to architects, consulting engineers and contractors. We are pleased that the MoU with RICS will enable ASAQS members to offer their expertise abroad,&#x201d; says Larry Feinberg, executive director, ASAQS. Tackling international projects RICS is one of the world&#x2019;s most prominent professional bodies for qualifications and standards in land, property, infrastructure and construction. The solidified relationship between the two bodies ensures that ASAQS members interested in getting involved in international projects now have the right levels of accreditation and qualification to do so with ease. ASAQS and RICS are both deeply entrenched within the quantity surveying and built environment industries and the associations are actively involved in a variety of committees and forums in the communities and countries in which they operate. The relationship between the associations aims to create new opportunities for information sharing as well as industry analysis and insight. Uplifting the industry &#x201c;At ASAQS, our goal is to represent the interests of our profession globally and make sure that members have the tools, information, accreditation and support that they need to further their business ventures as well as uplift the industry as a whole. Being internationally recognised and paving the way for more cross-border work for our members is a significant milestone that all of us can be proud of,&#x201d; says Feinberg. TC Chetty, country manager South Africa, RICS, says: &#x201c;We have taken great pleasure working with ASAQS over the years, and it is important for us to reach this milestone and take our relationship to the next level. Partnering with an established and prominent organisation like ASAQS takes us one step closer to achieving our goal of sharing important information to a wider audience within the built environment.&#x201d;