Courtesy of event organisers Show Works Creative Entertainment, Moving Tactics, the leading South African digital signage solutions company, was proud to deliver on a brief that put a unique spin on the traditional virtual reality (VR) experience. As guests arrived, they each put on a VR headset with integrated stereo audio, and were then ushered through a silent, black-draped and unfurnished walkway. All the sights and sounds they experienced were created by the headset &#x2013; in their virtual world, photographers&#x2019; flashes popped and journalists heckled them as they walked down a virtual red carpet in a fully immersive digital wonderland. To create this VR world, the Moving Tactics Digital Impact team filmed a red carpet scene with paparazzi in-studio and then rebuilt the video content in a 3D environment. As Elan Davidson, Technical Director at Moving Tactics Digital Impact, explains, this might sound relatively simple but timing, scale and meticulous video editing is required to make the VR component 100% credible. &#x201c;We filmed the entire walking scene using a helmet camera that included six individual full-HD cameras. The material was then edited in post production, where we combined all footage to create a 360 VR experience. This is the latest technology on the market and is one of very few first-person VR filming rigs. Omni-directional microphones were also used to give consumers a fully immersive experience when walking with the VR headgear.&#x201d; Over 120 of the invited guests took part in this remarkable VR experience and a further 250 people interacted with the 21.5&#x201d; interactive touch kiosks that Moving Tactics also provided for the day. Moving Tactics Digital Impact specialises in short-term, rental and campaign-based digital activation solutions. In addition to providing concept development and implementation using touch, projection and holographic technology, they also design and manufacture screen housings and bespoke items based on brief. Moving Tactics is a leading South African digital signage solutions company that develops customised digital signage technologies and is constantly creating innovative communication solutions. Website: www.movingtactics.co.za Facebook: www.facebook.com/MovingTacticsCT Twitter: @MovingTacticsSA