This is a massive leap forward in the world of online vehicle purchasing because, as any car buyer will tell you, it's vitally important to know what you're actually buying. Prior to this innovation, that was impossible in South Africa, specifically when relating to the vehicle interior, as flat photographs never portrayed the interior optimally. "The internet has played an important role within the motor industry globally," explains Frank McDouall, who conceptualised and co-founded Carfind.co.za in 2000 and is the current CIO. "But it's not without its challenges." One of those challenges is taking the conventional dealer showroom floor experience (whereby the buyer examines the car inside and out) and then replicating this experience online. "Honestly speaking, this is not easy to do. Yes, of course, there are photographs of the vehicle online. But flat photographs have limitations; they're designed to portray the car's finest features. Furthermore, photographs are better suited to displaying the exterior of a car," McDouall explains. Flat photographs not as effective He contends that photographs do not work as well for the interior of a vehicle. "It is much harder to examine the interior of any car if one only has flat photographs in front of you. And there is no denying that the interior of a car is very important; after all, it's where you spend your time!" comments McDouall. The 360 feature is a real bonus to buyers of both new and used cars. Want to compare the various interior options on a new car? You can do this easily - at the click of a button. This feature will negate the need to trawl through endless car showrooms, opening and closing car doors while searching for that perfect (but, sometimes, seemingly unattainable) interior. Each and every different interior colour and trim option can be examined with better perceptive detail - and in seconds. One can inspect the interior of the car thoroughly - simply by moving one's mobile device. "It's almost as good as sitting in the actual car. I only say 'almost' because the only things that are missing are the smell and touch of the car, so the tactile elements. Otherwise, the experience is as close to the real thing that one can simulate in the online realm." McDouall stresses that the 360 internal view is not generic. "This is very important. It is specific to each and every vehicle. So, if there is a stain on the seat or the upholstery is scuffed, the buyer will see this immediately," he explains. Rollout Carfind.co.za is currently rolling out the concept nationally across the 1000-plus dealership showroom floors that list their cars on the site, with around 900 cars already boasting the 360 interior view feature. Buyers can also filter out cars without this feature - so they can view only those models that do have the 360 interior view.