Richard Vandervord via Wikimedia Commons - Etihad_Airways A380 Meeting growing demand The additional deployment of the 496-seat double-decker aircraft means one of Australia&#x2019;s largest cities will join London and New York as an all-A380 operation. Business and leisure travellers to and from Abu Dhabi, the airline&#x2019;s operational hub, will enjoy increased capacity. The carrier will meet growing demand from the UAE and connecting cities across the Gulf region, Middle East and Europe. The Sydney &#x2013; London Heathrow route, via Abu Dhabi, will also offer guests an all-A380 service in both directions. Etihad Airways&#x2019; three daily London Heathrow flights are operated with an A380. Beginning 1 June, the second daily New York service will be upgraded to the superjumbo. Peter Baumgartner, Etihad Airways chief executive officer, said: &#x201c;Sydney is one of our busiest and best performing long-haul routes where we have experienced increased demand, particularly in our premium cabins, since the launch 10 years ago. &#x201c;By introducing the A380 on the second daily flight, we are able to ensure our flagship product is on all of the Sydney services each week. The upgrade of this service will help fulfill growing demand, benefiting travellers to and from Abu Dhabi, and across Etihad Airways&#x2019; global network.&#x201d; About Etihad Airways A380 The Residence is an ultra-private, three-room suite featuring a living room, bedroom with a double bed, separate en-suite shower room and dedicated personal butler trained at Savoy Butler Academy in London to look after the needs of its discerning guests. The cabin also comes with a private chef ready to custom-create menus to order. Etihad Airways' First Apartment on the A380 The nine First Apartments in first class are private living spaces featuring a flat-screen television, a chilled mini-bar, personal vanity unit, wardrobe and a fully equipped shower room for the exclusive use of first class guests. The 70-configured business studios are located on the upper deck of the A380, all offering direct aisle access and a fully flat bed. The Lobby, a lounge located between the first class and business class cabins, features two comfortable sofas and a staffed bar. A Flying Nanny trained by Norland College in the UK is onboard every A380 to provide dedicated childcare support for families travelling with young children. The main deck features 415 economy smart seats which offer unique ergonomic fixed-wing headrests, lumbar support and an 11-inch personal, high-definition monitor screen to enjoy over 750 hours of on-demand movies, TV programmes, improved gaming and live TV news and sports. Flight schedule: Abu Dhabi &#x2013; Sydney, effective 29 October 2017: Note: All departures and arrivals are listed in local time. +1 denotes following day