Basic Lead, the organisers of the DISCOP film and television content markets and coproduction forum, have unveiled reinforced efforts to firmly establish the annual DISCOP Johannesburg &nbsp;as the world's number one destination to source, acquire, and coproduce entertainment content "Made in Africa". A variety of campaigns will be deployed in the next six months to reach out to international broadcasters, pay-tv operators, streaming services, theatrical distributors, and sales agents seeking diverse and high-quality content. This initiative underscores what has been a long-running commitment by the organisers to both showcase African homegrown content and develop coproduction opportunities across sub-Saharan Africa. With 267 of the 347 production and distribution houses in attendance last year hailing from 36 African countries, DISCOP Johannesburg is already the largest gathering of African content production and distribution executives under one roof. &ldquo;We proudly declared after DISCOP Johannesburg 2016 that African content is King,&rdquo; explained Patrick Zuchowicki, CEO of Basic Lead and founder of the DISCOP markets. &ldquo;While African content has long struggled to reach audiences outside the continent, the presence at last year's DISCOP Johannesburg of some of the major global streamers - the new kids on the buying block - proved that content &lsquo;Made in Africa&rsquo; could be a disruptive force. There is an appetite for new projects with universal appeal and competition increases for fresh talent that can travel across all borders." As African produced content continues to draw the attention of distributors and content aggregators from around the world, thematic hubs will be set-up to showcase content made in Africa, such as the Pavilion Francophone Africain promoting independently produced French-speaking content; the Digilab Africa umbrella to spotlight innovations in virtual reality and 360-degree storytelling, and the Animation Village to welcome Africa's most creative animators. Indeed, DISCOP Johannesburg 2017 will continue with its strong focus on African animation through its continued partnership with the&nbsp;African Animation Network which will be hosting the Animation Village. Nick Wilson,&nbsp;project manager of the African Animation Network, has this to say of the partnership: "The African Animation Network is delighted to continue to build on the animation presence at DISCOP Markets. African animation creators are invited to compete in our pitching competitions (Annecy - MIFA Pitches Animation du Monde) and skills development programme (Annecy - MIFA Animation du Monde - Skills Programme), which are presented in partnership with Annecy International animated Film Festival. &ldquo;We're extremely excited to host delegates from across the continent representing the widest diversity of the African animation industry and in line with the mantra &lsquo;Made in Africa&rsquo;.&rdquo;