This weekend Offlimit Communications (OLC) transformed Turbine Hall in Johannesburg into a sanctuary of sound for the Ballantine's Beat of Africa. South Africa, Mozambique, Cameroon, Zambia and Angola came together in one accord, in the universally understood language of music. The who's who of Johannesburg's social scene, music aficionados and fans alike flocked to inner city Johannesburg to experience a first-of-its-kind multi-country album launch. Offlimit transformed Turbine Hall this weekend.The agency responsible for pulling off this mammoth campaign was South Africa-based BTL/experiential agency Offlimit Communications (OLC). In collaboration with partner suppliers, OLC not only turned Johannesburg, but Lusaka, Douala, Maputo and Luanda into the canvas of a celebration of sound. Celebrated Isidingo actress and musician Noluthando Meje, Lerato Sengadi and DJ ID Akio were amongst the revellers who watched African music sensation duo Black Motion tear up the stage with their much anticipated Beat of Africa reveal. Business Unit Director Gareth van Vuuren expanded, &#x201c;We could not be more thrilled at the outcome of what was easily one of our best productions to date! This campaign pushed the boundaries and was beyond rewarding for the team, what started out as trade activations across the regions to encourage and uplift awareness and sales then culminating in a main event per region was truly a feat on its own and by simply looking at the vibe across the board, the consumer enjoyed experiencing the Beat of Africa. OLC specialises in pushing brand capabilities and consumer experiences as an experiential/BTL agency. Beat of Africa is a perfect manifestation of our belief of &#x201c;living in the next&#x201d;, which means we are always looking for ways to give the consumer an experience they will never forget, evolving with global industry trends, creating world-first executions." The Ballantine's Beat of Africa was a four-month campaign across five countries - Cameroon, Angola, South Africa, Zambia and Mozambique - to find the sound of the continent, limited only by the confines of fans' imaginations. Fally Ipupa and DJ Paulo Alves completed the music ambassador triadic collaboration and party-goers danced until the morning, unifying in sound and dance - true to African form. #BeatOfAfrica #StayTrue