#OneShow2017: Final night's winnersWinners of the final 7 categories of the 44th One Show Awards have been announced at Cipriani Wall Street, with SA responsible for a further 6 bronze, 1 silver and 1 gold pencil, which was also crowned best of discipline' for radio, as well as 10 merit awards - this puts us in 10th best country ranking...13 May 2017 Pre- and post-production companies and the recording studios where the magic happens don&#x2019;t usually get to bask in the limelight of big award wins like the One Show, sometimes not even receiving recognition for the work they put into those campaigns the nation loves. Myles McDonald, composer and producer at Hey Papa Legend. Here, Myles McDonald composer and producer at Hey Papa Legend, which created the radio spot that won SA&#x2019;s only gold Pencil at the One Show as well as best of discipline for radio with FCB Africa for client NetFlorist, shares his input. Congratulations! Talk us through the way our creative industry collaborates and gets the job done. I think that trust is probably the most important aspect of any collaboration. Creatives are generally close to their work, so to let someone else take your idea and run with it requires trust in their ability to execute the vision. Getting into the nitty-gritty, elaborate on your involvement in this specific winning work. This job was intensive. When we first got the brief, we were secretly wondering how on earth it was going to work. The most important part was getting words to actually sound like sound effects, which required a lot of trial and error. We pushed the voice artist to imitate the SFX we knew we wanted and then we warped words to help blend into the real SFX. SA's D&AD 2017 winners: FCBWith the D&AD 2017 winners revealed, I chatted to SA's lucky lot. FCB Africa's joint-CCO, Jonathan Deeb, talks about the colour and content of their D&AD pencil box...By Leigh Andrews 5 May 2017 When we got the first word 'you' to sound like a rocket firing, I knew we were on to something special! Share your opinion on SA&#x2019;s quality of creative work overall, especially as we ended up in 10th country ranking spot at the One Show with a gold and best of discipline in radio. SA seems to always do well in radio. For me, it is the ultimate form of creativity as all you have to play with is the theatre of the mind. I see it as a good indication of the creative ability in this country. What are you most looking forward to from the rest of the year&#x2019;s award circuit, with Cannes Lions around the corner and Loeries just a few months away? We are obviously looking forward to seeing how we do in the next round of awards, but also to working on our new NetFlorist spots and pushing the idea even further. Gold Pencil-winning &#x2018;A war of words: Anniversary forgotten&#x2019;: Other spots in the &#x2018;War of Words&#x2019; campaign: Kitchen of Fury: Status Liked: As a studio in both Cape Town and Johannesburg we have some other really interesting work entered and will be holding thumbs for those. But we also like to keep a look out for work where someone has used a medium in a way never done before &#x2013; I suppose everyone does. That&#x2019;s for sure! Keep an eye on our Cannes Lions and Loeries special sections for the latest updates and revisit our One Show special section for key interviews, insights and accolades.