With its heady combo of valleys, mountain ranges, wine estates, crisp fresh air and fine wine, the Upper Blaauwklippen Valley is the perfect setting for wine lovers to explore and taste wines from all three stellar wine farms. Each produce the highest quality terroir specific and hand-crafted wines which convey the personality, humble distinction and uniqueness of the Helderberg area to the full. &#x201c;The Upper Blaauwklippen Valley could just be Stellenbosch&#x2019;s new trump card. Here, a vein of fine Syrah runs from Kleinood through Keermont and De Trafford at the top of the valley,&#x201d; says Roland Peens, director of Wine Cellar. This year, each farm will showcase their current release wines, as well as rare and special vinoteque wines, including the De Trafford Chenin blanc, Keermont Estate blend and Kleinood Tamboerskloof Syrah. Winemakers and owners will offer guests a more in-depth understanding of this prime Stellenbosch winemaking area, its philosophy and its people. Exclusive tasting experience The Upper Blaauwklippen vintners will join forces each year to make an annual event of the exclusive tasting. Each farm provides culinary treats throughout the tasting and a shuttle service between the farms to ensure that guests can relax and enjoy the magnificent, picturesque scenery along the Blaauwklippen valley. The five kilometre trip up the valley leads along an elevation of 200 meters and allows guests to enjoy breathtaking views while meandering along the Blaauwklippen river. &#x201c;We look forward to welcoming wine lovers to our farms, getting to know our guests, spending quality time explaining the stories behind our wines, showcasing fine wines and offering a charming and informative tasting amidst the untouched mountain slopes of the Upper Blaauwklippen valley,&#x201d; says David Trafford. The visit to all three estates offers a personal touch, as the farms are contained and have limited opening hours, making this a particularly exclusive tasting experience. To take part in this premium tasting accompanied by culinary delights by the likes of Chef Gustaaf Boshoff from Stirfood at Kleinood farm on Saturday, 10 June from 11h00 to 16h00, book your tickets at R400 per person on by emailing Keermont sales: az.oc.tnomreek&#64;selas or call Jessica at Kleinood on 021 880 2527. Tickets are limited.