The concept engineering design, as well as the topographical and geotechnical survey, has been completed and construction is due to commence in Q4 of 2017, with commissioning planned for the Q3 of 2019. Phase one of the liquid bulk facility will provide approximately 150,000cbm of storage capacity for refined petroleum products and will replace the tanks currently in use in the Port of Port Elizabeth, which will be decommissioned and the land redeveloped. This is in line with Port Elizabeth&#x2019;s plans to clean up the terminal facilities and develop the commercial and tourism sectors. Future phases Future phases will provide for an additional 550,000cbm of storage capacity and handling. The new modern facility will service the Oil Majors, new entrants into the South African oil industry as well as international traders - all supporting the local shipping industry. Oiltanking Grindrod Calulo, a majority South African-owned level 1 BBBEE company, is an independent bulk liquid storage provider in South Africa. The Ngqura facility is a unique opportunity for the joint venture partners as well as for the region. Benefits For Oiltanking, it will be its first holding in a South African fuel terminal, whereas for Calulo, being involved in all aspects of the oil supply chain, it will be its first clean products terminal. For Grindrod, the Ngqura liquid storage facility provides diversification into fuel storage and handling and aligns with its coastal tanker shipping through Unicorn Tankers. The liquid bulk facility hopes to create socio-economic benefits as well as boost the Eastern Cape (Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality) economy. Besides generating local jobs during the construction phase of the project, the facility will provide permanent positions in the long term. It will promote skills development in the construction industry as well as empower the local BBBEE businesses. The region should also benefit from additional tax income and the local businesses from increased revenues. Port of PE transitions into smart portIn line with the national strategy for South Africa's ports, the creation of a smart port in Port Elizabeth (as seen in Europe and the Far East) will embrace smart energy, logistics, processes, environment and management...13 Mar 2017