Justin Bieber Johannesburg ConcertTimes Gates Open: 5pm Support &#x2013; Sketchy Bongo: 7.30pm &#x2013; 8.20pm Justin Bieber: 8.30pm Restricted access No camping will be allowed outside the venue. No persons will be allowed to queue outside the venue until 10am on the day of the show. If you fail to comply with this requirement and refuse to vacate the area after being instructed to do so by security and/or SAPS, we reserve the right to confiscate your ticket and escort you from the venue. In the case of an unaccompanied minor your parents/guardian will be contacted to collect you from the venue and if they fail to do so within a reasonable time we will contact city social services. Please note: You risk missing the show without the option of a refund if you chose to ignore this very important safety and security requirement. Transport Make sure you book your transport ticket before the show day: Park and Ride: Book at Computicket Alberton City, Alberton Carnival City, Brakpan East Rand Mall, Boksburg Royal Elephant Hotel and Conference, Centurion UJ West Sport, Auckland Park Menlyn Park Shopping Centre, Pretoria Silverstar Casino, Krugersdorp Worldwear, Randburg Parking: Book at Computicket before show day Bus Parking: R560 Premium Parking: R560 Mini Bus Parking: R390 Exclusive Parking: R280 General Access Parking: R100 Uber/Taxi: Must drop and collect from the Drop and Stay at the Bus Hub off Landbou Street, only accessible off Golden Highway off Rand Show Road &#x2013; view map for location. Connection/bus hub off Landbou Street: A hub has been created at the Drop & Stay point to connect lost people and communicate with the event organisers. Please enter from Golden Highway off Rand Show road. Disabled parking: can be collected at the stadium between 9am -4pm before Friday 13th May by providing your disabled or doctor&#x2019;s certificate along with R80. For any queries please contact Simone on 0112475300. Please note: Security will be ensuring that all disabled parking ticket holders have the relevant paperwork to allow them access to the dedicated parking area. Disabled parking is located at Gate G across from Safa house on Nasrec Road. Venue Map Please print a copy of the map and give it to your children and those attending as it shows entrance points and contact information. Entrance Points Very important: Note your ticket and the gate you need to use to get into the stadium. All field ticket holders both Golden Circle and General Admission area require an armband to access the field. These are collected at the relevant Gate outlined below: Golden Circle Standing enter through Gate M or enter through Gate GGeneral Admission Standing through Gate MSeated tickets enter through Gate C, Gate K and Gate H. (no armband required). Note: all turnstiles can accept all seated tickets, if the turnstiles in front of you are busy, look left and right for alternative access points and please listen to Security. Rights of Admission apply.If you purchased your tickets to the Stadium Management Lounge you must enter through Gate C and proceed to Foyer A via Turnstile 23. Important safety information for parents and minors Age and height restrictions: All fans attending the concerts that are younger than 14 years of age must be accompanied by a parent/guardian. No one under 12 years (see website), or anyone that is shorter than 1.2m, will be permitted onto the Front Zone Standing or General Admission field standing areas for safety and security reasons. Please note: Security will strictly monitor this requirement and anyone not meeting these requirements will be relocated to alternative seats in the stands. If you refuse to be relocated we reserve the right to confiscate your event ticket. Please note: You risk missing the show without the option of a refund if you chose to ignore this very important safety and security requirement. Please contact Computicket before the day of the show to swap your tickets for seated tickets if you do not meet these minimum requirements. No disabled persons will be allowed on the field for safety and security reasons. Emergency Contact Details Children between the ages of 14-18 years of age who are not accompanied by a parent/guardian must have an emergency contact number for their parent/guardian saved under the name ICE on their mobile phones. If you don&#x2019;t have a mobile phone, or if you are concerned that you will run out of battery on your mobile phone, please write this information on a piece of paper and keep it safely on your person. Please ensure that you write your name and surname, that of your parent/guardian, and emergency contact details clearly in bold capital letters. Please make sure your mobile phone is fully charged before leaving for the concert. There are no mobile charging stations at the event, and you are advised to close all non-essential applications such as Facebook and Twitter and switch off all non-essential services such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi when your mobile phone reaches 20% battery capacity. Lost and Found (missing persons at the concert) We have set up a Lost and Found Hub at the venue, which is located at Lift Lobby U. We have also set up a dedicated call centre number which can be reached on 0861 782 3486 should you need to contact the lost and found hub. This number can be used for all incidents, queries and emergencies and will be in operation the day of the event as well as after the event. We will be employing dedicated chaperones that will be stationed throughout the stadium. They will be easily identifiable, and their sole purpose is to ensure your safety and security. For unaccompanied minors, it is advisable for parents to educate their children about the inherent dangers of attending large- events. Do not talk to strangers, do not accept food or beverages from strangers, and do not get into a vehicle with strangers. Always adhere to the instructions from security. If you are in a situation where you feel unsafe or uncomfortable always put your safety first and approach the nearest security steward or chaperone or call 0861 782 3486 for assistance. The Lost and Found Hub inside the venue is at Lift Lobby U and is only accessible by those with a valid event ticket during the event. We have therefore created the Connection Hub at the Drop & Stay/Go point which is to the South of the Stadium over the train bridge at Gate K on Landbou Road (see map) for anyone outside the venue wishing to connect to someone inside, or if you have already left the venue and cannot connect with someone on the outside of the venue. After the show all lost and found persons from the Lost and Found Hub will be chaperoned to the Connection Hub at the Drop & Stay/Go point where they can wait in a secure environment to connect with those responsible for taking them home. Security, chaperones, the event organisers and SAPS will not leave the venue until every person in the precinct has left. Dos and Don&#x2019;ts Don't forget to bring with you on the day: your tickets, ID (if you have one), a fully charged mobile phone, cash (no ATMs on site) or a debit/credit card, and appropriate clothes for all weather conditions. Do make sure you stay hydrated and eat properly before and throughout the concert. Always put your safety and security first, even if it means you lose your position in the queue or on the field. Security, medical- and disaster risk staff will be positioned inside and outside the stadium to respond to any emergencies, and reserve the right to extract you from any area for safety and security reasons. Prohibited items:Professional cameras or professional recording devices are not permitted. Selfie sticks are also not permitted. Glass bottles or containers or other heavy and/or sharp objects, which could potentially be used as projectiles (excluding sunglasses, binoculars and prescription or reading glasses) Any illegal drugs Skateboards, scooters, roller blades or bicycles Knives, weapons of any nature or fireworks Any object that could be used to distract, hinder or interfere with any performer including laser pointers and flashlights Flags with poles, large flags or banners that may obstruct the view of other patrons Any whistle, horn, musical instrument, loud hailer, public address system Digital, electronic or other recording or broadcast device Any item that you intend to distribute, hawk, sell, offer, expose for sale or display for marketing or promotional purposes No animals apart from authorised guide/companion dogs Any dangerous goods and any other items by management to be dangerous or capable of causing a public nuisance Professional cameras or video recorders Umbrellas Braais Camping chairs Cooler boxes Food and refreshments (including soft drinks and alcohol) which will be available for sale inside the concert. Strictly no pass-outs Food and beverages: Food and beverages will be available for sale inside and outside the stadium to purchase. However, no food/beverages will be allowed into the venue. Please note: Alcohol will be sold in the stadium at designated kiosks. No alcohol will be permitted to be brought into the stadium. Fan flags and posters: All flags/posters/banners must be detached from sticks/poles. All banners and flags will be checked by security for profanity or inappropriate wording/statements. Large flags, banners and other objects that may obstruct the view of others will not be permitted. Contact Big Concerts at the concert: Please stay in touch with us on social media on the night for any updates or messages on Twitter: @BigConcerts and Facebook: /bigconcerts or call 0861 782 3486 for lost and found.