 Karel Joseph Noppe Brooks 123RF.comTownship marketing expert, GG Alcock, CEO of Minanawe and author of the book Kasinomics, will be speaking at the conference. In addition, Ask Afrika will be sharing its latest geospatial solution, GeoScope, which creates a visual map of consumer behaviour, points of interest, utilities and market segments. It is used to visually plot and view research data, combined with census information and psychographic descriptions available in Target Group Index (TGI), making it one of the richest datasets currently available to marketers and brand owners. Identifying product gaps A large portion of the South African population lives in a township and this market segment has significant spending power. Kasi Star brands are brands that are used loyally by township consumers across the country. It is important for marketers to understand consumer lifestyles and attitudes towards brands in the Kasi. The Kasi Star Brands research provides valuable insights into product preferences, media consumption patterns and psychographic profiles of this market. It enables marketers to create credible conversations with township consumers and to understand the influences that are unique to the township environment. Connecting with South African youth In South Africa, a significant portion of the population fall into the youth market, it is important for brand owners to understand this entire market segment and not just millennials. The Ask Afrika Youth Brands benchmark answers questions around loyal usage patterns from young people aged 15 up to 34, irrespective of background or living standard. This year, 72 product categories were included in the youth brands survey. The research further segments South African youth consumers by life stage. To understand the youth market better, life stages can be used in a segmentation model filtered by the brand and product category. Each life stage has a core life value and events that influence consumer choice. The research defines a common experience, to which South African youth are committed to: they put their money where their mouths are to demonstrate this loyalty. The Ask Afrika Youth Brands winners will be revealed in the Sunday Sun on Sunday, 25 June 2017 and published in the Daily Sun on Tuesday, 27 June 2017. Tickets are R710 per person (excluding VAT) and can be booked via email: az.oc.akirfaksa&#64;tfark.eikcaj .