Parenthood does not come with a manual; the only true advice one might consider is that of a fellow parent. Over the last 13 years, MamaMagic, The Baby Expo has provided parents a platform to connect, learn and access all things parenting and baby all under one roof &#x2013; and has thrown in a little magic for good measure. Bringing it back to where it all started, MamaMagic, The Baby Expo has set course to be at the Ticketpro Dome from 18&#x2013;21 May 2017 for yet another fun-filled family experience. Parents and parents-to-be can expect hundreds of local and international brands covering all aspects of pregnancy, babies and toddlers exhibiting during the four-day event. Additionally, the resident purple friendly dinosaur, Barney, will perform live on stage four times a day. MamaMagic, The Baby Expo has become an experience that all parents should get &#x2013; a chance to enjoy and revel in the great savings and an opportunity to investigate new products. With over 120,000 visitors across the expos each year, the platform has grown to be a pregnancy, baby and toddler family outing. This winter, Huggies returns with more great topics to educate visitors with free informative sessions at the Huggies Expert&#x2019;s Lounge. MamaMagic visitors can sit in on short, insightful talks that provide tips and parenting advice from a variety of the country&#x2019;s best experts in the field. One of the biggest challenges when out shopping with little ones is keeping them entertained. With this in mind, MamaMagic has partnered with Lego Duplo to provide a play area to entertain the children by strengthening their fine motor skills and encouraging their imaginations. The Huggies Pants: Soft Play Experience will also be where the little ones can climb and play to their heart&#x2019;s content. Pampers Premium Care provides spacious and comfortable nappy-changing rooms to make the comfort break for little ones a breeze, while nursing moms are also covered at the expo with two designated breastfeeding rooms where babies can nurse in peace. Expectant mothers stand a chance to win big prizes for their baby with the Pampers Premium Baby on Board competition. One lucky winner will walk away with a comprehensive birthing and parenting starter pack valued over R100,000 to help her on the journey of parenthood. Be part of the magic this May and revel in the great savings&#x2019; opportunities with the Baby City specials throughout the four MamaMagic, The Baby Expo days. Let South Africa&#x2019;s largest pregnancy and parenting expo provide the space to spend memorable time with the family and the platform to connect with fellow parents. Tickets are on sale at Ticketpro outlets and online www.ticketpros.co.za. Although tickets to the Barney show are free, they must be booked through Ticketpro to secure a seat.