When it comes to delivering an experience unlike any other, the hidden tech makes all the difference. Lamborghini always comes out boldly, aiming to push the boundaries of technology and the imagination. In the last five years, the car manufacturer has transformed into a place where top-tier engineering and technology are as important as engines and designs. To ensure driver safety every car comes with the standard features you can expect in a supercar such as F1-style pushrod suspension, keyless ignition and all the traction control packages to keep you on the road. But Lamborghini isn&#x2019;t interested in the kind of tech you find in executive sedans. Carbon fibre technology For over thirty years, Lamborghini has been developing carbon fibre technology and applying it to the automotive field, through an international research effort that also includes the Advanced Composite Structures Laboratory (ACSL) in Seattle. Through this partnership, it has opened up new vistas for composite materials. Carbon fibre is well-known all over the world but what does this mean for your exclusive driving experience? Lamborghini&#x2019;s composite materials mean that greater structural integrity is achieved at a lower weight which increases acceleration, quickens the steering response and delivers a more finely tuned visceral driving experience. Collaboration with world of modern aeronautical engineering The company&#x2019;s collaboration with the world of modern aeronautical engineering can be seen in every aspect of their supercars &#x2013; the stealth jet styling serves as the visual aspect of Lamborghini&#x2019;s entire design and manufacturing process. The hidden weapon for the all-new Hurac n Performante is what it calls its Aerodinamica Lamborghini Attiva (ALA) system. ALA is a smart system that manages active aerodynamics. ALA adapts to the driving style and type of route, constantly adjusting airflow around the car to ensure maximum performance at every moment while keeping you safe. When necessary, it increases vertical load to assist stability and speed through curves, or it reduces aerodynamic resistance to assist acceleration. The beauty of ALA is in its simplicity &#x2013; it simply uses the air around the car to create an integrated performance system with its environment. By consistently investing in the research and development of new composite materials and systems through meaningful and strategic partnerships with other industry leaders Lamborghini creates technology for the future without being hampered by the constraints of what is currently available.