Tim Smith&#x201c;Service is everything and many Africans offer exceptional service as a matter of course. By highlighting the very best, we thank them for promoting our great industry and ensuring guests return home with fabulous tales of their trip to the continent. From an investment perspective, investors need to be confident their sizeable investment is protected by excellent staff dedicated to maximising returns for all,&#x201d; he says. Southern Africa is rapidly gaining significance in the global tourism industry, establishing itself as a must-see destination as well as a valuable investment playground, Smith says. There is no question that Africa offers incredible locations and magnificent hotel properties, but it is ultimately the service, the ability to meet and exceed guest expectations, that determines customer loyalty; increasing guest returns which impacts positively on profitability. The award categories are: Hotel of the Year Awards &#x2013; The nominations will be categorised by positioning and rated on both qualitative and quantitative measures. General Manager of the Year Award &#x2013; General managers will be categorised by the hotel&#x2019;s positioning and rated on qualitative and quantitative measures. Student of the Year &#x2013; To celebrate and promote the best of the next generation in the industry, the shortlisted students will be given free entry to the conference. All awards will be judged by an impartial panel of hotel experts to ensure there is no favouritism. The names of the winners will be announced on the first day of the THINC Africa conference as part of the scheduled programme. The shortlisted parties will receive global recognition and exposure through the HVS marketing portal. The shortlisted students gain entry to the conference, and a stand to promote themselves. They will be exposed to 200 leaders in the African hotel industry. The GMs and hotels receive a 50% discount on entry to the event. &#x201c;It is our way of promoting the very best in Africa to ensure the rest of the world is aware of the extraordinary experiences they can enjoy when the visit this great continent,&#x201d; said Smith. Smith emphasises that it is important to give back to the industry. &#x201c;For the Student of the Year we would like them to receive amazing opportunities; for GM of the Year, opportunities to further enhance their CV and boost the performance of their hotel with acknowledgment of great service and guest experience. And for Hotel of the Year, global exposure to highlight some of the best hotels in the world are in Africa, This is our way of acknowledging greatness and thanking them for all they do for our industry,&#x201d; he says. The awards are open to nominees throughout Africa and the nomination forms are available on THINC Africa.