Taking place at the Juventus field at the Botanical Gardens on Sunday, 2 July 2017, the festival aims to deliver a supreme and sophisticated outdoor musical experience to cater for a more music-orientated crowd. With the electrifying festive buzz, the Jazz in July festival will offer alternative, mature entertainment on the Sunday post the famous horse race. The Jazz in July will feature live performances from SA&#x2019;s premium Jazz and Afro Soul artists. This includes the legendary Ringo, Ray Phiri and Thandiswa Mazwai, alongside multiple award winners like Naima Kay, Zonke and Amanda Black. Also confirmed are old school greats, Joe Nina and Robbie Malinga. Other performers include, Zandi Khumalo, Scelo Gowane, Mondli Ngcobo, DJ Kotin, the UKZN Jazz Ensemble and many more. The Jazz in July however is just the end results of a series of several community building activities and initiatives leading up to it. From the roadshow running through the month of June with the aim of discovering and developing new talent who will later headline at the festival; to workshops to build local talent and even the opportunity for hands on experience at the festival offered to event management students. An interactive and irresistible musical experience &#x201c;One of the main aims of Jazz in July is to unearth and nurture new talent in the province,&#x201d; says organiser Wanita Ngcobo. &#x201c;The Jazz in July is so much more than just a concert or festival, there are so many legs to this, which includes development of the community.&#x201d; The festival will present an interactive and irresistible musical experience using sound, interactive stage, dance, live performances, theatre of the mind and active collaborations of musicians, i.e. afro-pop with jazz. Patrons are encouraged to bring along their camping chairs, umbrellas and cooler boxes (free before 2pm, R100 thereafter) to enjoy the atmosphere whilst taking part in the activities the festival has to offer. Several braaistands will be available on site so guests are welcome to bring and braai. Hospitality marquees will also be set up for VIP and other guests. Tickets are available from R290 &#x2013; R850 at Computicket from Friday, 26 May 2017. Concert Information Date: Sunday, 2nd July 2017 Time: 11h00 &#x2013; 00:00 Venue: Juventus Field, Botanical Gardens, Durban Ticket prices: General Access: R290 Golden Circle: R400 VIP: R850