&#x201c;The decision to rebrand follows positive market growth and new opportunities, including the forging of a partnership with The Growth Collective, a black empowered investment holding company,&#x201d; says Sara van den Brink, MD of Roering Creative Kin (RCK). The Growth Collective (TGC) acquired a 40% shareholding of RCK in December 2016. Their mutual alignment and recognition of necessary transformation in the advertising industry, as well as their unwaveringly positive outlook on South Africa guarantees that the partnership is a good fit. Glen Roering, The Nduna of RCK, says: &#x201c;As we have evolved and broadened our structure and offerings, we explore the sentiment: we are no longer just an agency who excel in designer communications, we now design communication that connects people with brands, and brands with people.&#x201d; In so doing, they have examined and continue to examine, their versatile skill set and streamline divisions to offer clients specialised services with an organic view of their needs, not only their wants. From branding to experiential activations, digital, motion graphics and procurement, RCK pride themselves on delivering memorable, refined creative solutions to their clients. Adrian Gore, Chief Executive of Discovery Limited, has only high praise for RCK&#x2019;s creative output: &#x201c;Something we value at Discovery is the art of brilliant communication that articulates complex messaging in a way that is distinctive and easy to understand. We also operate by demanding excellence, right up to last-minute changes &#x2013; a tough challenge for any provider. RCK has always been able to meet both these requirements, by producing beautiful, thoughtful work under rigorous time constraints. They understand the essence of both our organisation and the specific messages we want to convey &#x2013; and get both across in a dynamic way.&#x201d; Mike Wood, co-founder and Director of TGC, is excited by their investment: &#x201c;Never before have I seen the levels of staff retention that RCK have. This is testament to the family ethos of the company, which interests us as investors, and feeds our agenda of doing good business first. When people feel good working for a company, productivity, loyalty and commitment increase. This, in turn, is exactly what RCK offers its clients.&#x201d; The culture and spirit of Global Mouse transfers into Roering Creative Kin; kindred, relatives, family. The evolution of RCK, together with TGC, has resulted into what Group Creative Officer Ivan Kirstein calls an un-agency. Ivan motivates that the new naming convention upholds RCK&#x2019;s family culture, one in which support and accountability for one another ensures consistently high quality output and quick turnaround time. By not subscribing to the frills that mainstream agencies embrace, RCK is advertising&#x2019;s anti-hero. The importance of retaining the heart of small business values means that RCK keeps things simple, relevant, effective and on point. Glen Roering says: &#x201c;We believe a good idea, executed well, can provide measurable results, and by doing this, we give clients what they need, and not necessarily only what they want.&#x201d;