The Loeries&#x2019; 2015 branding was designed by King James the Second or KJII and in 2016, the artwork was designed by Grid Worldwide. King James II says 'yes' to a Durban sea of 'no'Rob Mc Lennan of King James II is a busy man, but I pinned him down for a quick, exclusive chat on this year's Loeries campaign - Durban, you've been warned...By Leigh Andrews 2 Feb 2015 This year, the branding baton has again been passed on and the city of Durban will be branded by JC Decaux. The 2017 branding is currently in development and will only be unveiled at Loeries Creative Week, taking creative direction from the campaign that DDB unveiled earlier this year: #Loeries2017: DDB on the essence of creative industry judging'Liam Wielopolski, chief creative officer at DDB SA, shares the essence of this year's Loeries campaign and what the 2017 Loerie Awards will be judging...By Leigh Andrews 17 Feb 2017 Here, Setlhodi explains what to expect from this year&#x2019;s work, as well as how OOH and outdoor tie in with the rest of the overall media marketing mix&#x2026; What does it mean to be the Loeries&#x2019; outdoor and out-of-home category sponsor as well as official branding partner for 2017? As the official sponsor of the outdoor and out of home category, and the official supplier of out-of-home media to the Loeries, we are proud to be affiliated with an Internationally recognised award that recognises, rewards, inspires and fosters creative excellence in the brand communication industry. JC Decaux believes this is an opportunity to celebrate the highest levels of creativity and excellence in advertising and to show support for upholding world-class levels of creativity in the advertising industry. We&#x2019;re keeping abreast of cutting &#x2013; edge creativity through our sponsorship of the outdoor and out-of-home category by sponsoring the digital coverage for the Loeries. We see this partnership as an opportunity to drive creativity in South Africa&#x2019;s out-of-home industry and believe this is an opportunity to promote and reward excellence in outdoor creative execution. We continue to celebrate creativity, and continually strives to create the most up-to-date and innovative out-of-home (OOH) and digital (DOOH) platforms for advertising professionals to display their creative works, to ensure they receive maximum reach and impact in the appropriate environments. Talk us through the thought process that goes into creating work at scale like this. One of our values is cutting-edge innovation. Our entrepreneurial spirit is driven by making the city, transport systems and shopping centres attractive while meeting the challenges of the 21st century, such as urbanisation and digitalisation. Loeries 2015 branding by King James the Second (KJII). Loeries 2015 branding by King James the Second (KJII). Loeries 2015 branding by King James the Second (KJII). Loeries 2015 branding by King James the Second (KJII). We recently created a future and content division in our organisation, dedicated to creating bespoke outdoor solutions tailored to achieving a clients&#x2019; key advertising objectives. The division works in collaboration with media and advertising agencies to ensure the creative concept and message is optimised for the specific out-of-home platform. Loeries 2016 branding by Grid Worldwide. Loeries 2016 branding by Grid Worldwide. Loeries 2016 branding by Grid Worldwide. Loeries 2016 branding by Grid Worldwide. How does OOH and outdoor then tie in with the rest of the overall media marketing mix? Out-of-home advertising is considered a mass-market medium as per the other mediums in advertising. JCDecaux has revolutionised this medium by focusing on qualitative solutions, so advertisers are able to achieve maximum impact through spaces that are strategically located and fit harmoniously into their surroundings. What are you most looking forward to from Loeries 2017? We are most looking forward to yet another year of outstanding design, impactful and memorable out-of-home advertising. As are we! Note the extended deadline for entries into the Loeries 2017 is 31 May. For more information, visit www.loeries.com. You can also visit the JCDecaux press office and Twitter feed for their latest updates.