Founded in 1974, Hi-Tec has a rich history of providing customers with durable footwear that encompasses the latest technological advances. A partnership between a global brand and Kingdom Agency's vision to do good through creativity can only lead to big things. Kingdom Agency's co-founder, Herman Wallis, commented on the new partnership. "We are delighted to have become the strategic and creative agency of choice for a brand loved by millions with distribution in more than 85 countries," said Wallis. "As an agency, for us it&#x2019;s so much more than landing an account, it&#x2019;s a long term partnership giving us an opportunity to add value, solve real business issues and do more than just meeting the needs of customers, but rather making sure we touch the lives of people.&#x201d; &#x201c;For Hi-Tec&#x2019;s long-term strategic vision to be realised, it was essential we partnered with an agency who understands the importance of delivering to our current market needs while tapping into future segments. We place enormous value on connecting with our consumer authentically, and Kingdom Agency understood our needs perfectly,&#x201d; said Hi-Tec Marketing Director Jo Esterhuizen. In a little over a year, Kingdom Agency has grown and worked with an impressive list of clients such as Seeff Real Estate, and Rennies Travel to name but a few. Our trusted triple-win philosophy is what pushes us to strive for excellence. Herman WallisAs an up-and-coming agency, we have worked hard to inject our unique insight and creative twist into everything our clients need and want. Kingdom Agency works to share good values, for both people and the planet. We aim to build long-term relationships and share our client's vision with the world. We would love the opportunity to do the same for you. "As an agency, we are proud to stand by our triple-win philosophy," commented Wallis. "If we don&#x2019;t strive to better the lives of the people we created the products for in the first place, what&#x2019;s the point?" Relationship, respect, and creating change are as important as the numbers for us, and it's proving to be our winning formula. We strive to show just how successful our unique take on marketing and advertising can be. With more than 30 years of collective industry experience and a focus on creative excellence we know we can achieve great things for you and your brand. If our ethos resonates with you and what you&#x2019;re looking to achieve with your brand, contact us to discuss your vision.