Kelly Jackson, GM, Contiki SAWhat drives Contiki to innovate and how do you go about it? We are continuously inspired by emerging technologies, platforms, trends and market drivers, and as a company, we invest in forward-thinking marketing. We constantly strive to innovate and create incredible and memorable campaigns and content. Why has Contiki embraced Virtual Reality? What are the benefits of using VR as a travel marketing tool on both sides? We introduced VR in 2015 as a means to further engage our travellers. It provides us with the opportunity to bring our brochure to life and allows consumers to get a taste of what they could be in store for if they booked a trip with us. Tell us about some of Contiki&#x2019;s VR campaigns and the response to these campaigns All our VR campaigns are loaded onto our Samsung headsets. We initially started with VR content that focused on Europe as a destination and then introduced USA and Latin American content. Now we have a whole range of destinations available to view by means of VR. Get a taste of Europe with Contiki VR headsetsSTA Travel has teamed up with Contiki to bring Europe to South Africa by offering travellers a virtual reality experience using Contiki VR headsets...19 Aug 2016 As one of the leaders in the VR space, we ran an April Fool&#x2019;s day campaign in 2016 around our introduction of VR and taking it to another level. How is VR helping Contiki attract a new audience and what kind of audience? I wouldn&#x2019;t say a new audience, but it is providing us with an opportunity to engage more consumers &#x2013; particularly when they come talk to us at expos about our trips. This interactive experience allows us to give them a little taste of what an adventure with us would be like, and hopefully, with that excitement, they&#x2019;ll book a trip to experience it all &#x2013; in real life. What is Contiki&#x2019;s approach and how important is it to create original, authentic content? We have our own in-house team that creates all our video content. The content is filmed on our trips by our teams and is a true reflection of what we offer and who Contiki is. What&#x2019;s next for VR and how will this affect how Contiki&#x2019;s travel marketing strategy? We always have something awesome and exciting up our sleeve. We can&#x2019;t give away too many secrets... but for now, VR is a fun and engaging way for us to connect with potential travellers.