We spoke to SAMA-nominated artist, Dave Reynolds, who with Pops Mohamed has been nominated for a SAMA in the category &#x2018;Best Jazz Album&#x2019; for their album, Live in Grahamstown. When are you happiest? Oh that's a great question! When I'm composing, performing, and when I get to do workshops with kids. What does music mean to you? Well I'm just a servant to what music asks of me... I feel music as a force, which connects, which heals and which gives us inspiration and the courage to reach out to others. Your heroes? It's been a great honour to work with my childhood heroes. Musicians like Pops Mohamed, Louis Mhlanga, Bra Hugh, Paul Hanmer, Andy Narell and others. Which living person do you admire most and why? Too many to choose, but let me not wiggle out of it. Johnny Clegg showed me that we could all make something new in Africa and export it to the world. I was eight years old when I realised (through his music) what it means to be unique. What is your most treasured possession? I have a steel pan I play everyday and a ten string harp guitar &#x2013; they are like limbs on my body. I've also started playing a Paraguayan harp. I guess they are possessions although they don't feel like that. It&#x2019;s your round, what are you drinking? Well, when I work, I drink Rooibos tea! When I unwind with friends I drink whatever they are drinking. (What does this make me? A cross between a nerd and a slut - a slerd?) Dream gig to do? I love playing in theatres. I love collaboration, so a dream gig would be to collaborate with artists that I haven't had the chance to play with. What makes you stand out? I play steel pans, which is really unusual, and I compose music that reaches different people in different ways. I also choose to play with musicians who are not just musicians but interesting people. Nicknames? Just one: Daveman. If you were not a musician what would you do? I&#x2019;d probably be a mountaineer or a photographer. So much to choose from these days. Pick five words to describe yourself? Easily inspired by little things. Five desert island discs? Andreas Vollenweider - White Winds Etienne Mbappe - Misiya Mokhdar Samba - Dounia Muzik Ye Afrika - Muzik Ye Afrika Live in Grahamstown - Dave Reynolds & Pops Mohamed What song changed your life? There's been too many. Boy in the Bubble by Paul Simon was one of them. What is your favourite word? Kak. There&#x2019;s so much of it in business, the media and politics, and when we listen to good music it's kak-free! Favourite fashion garment? Hand-painted shirts, but not too hippy. On stage I tend to? Realise how lucky I am to be there. DAVE + POPS - KANGO Live @ The Orbit from dave reynolds on Vimeo. Your greatest achievement? If you are walking on stage for a keynote speech, what song would you use and why? Difficult one: being an instrumentalist, I find music is music and keynote is keynote, although when I have gave a TED talk in Cape Town recently, I performed a tune of mine called, Kango which the audience really got into. The best life lesson you have been taught? Fail. Fail again. Fail better. Click here for the Dave Reynolds Facebook page.