Hein Kaiser, fastjet GM Marketing and CommunicationsAfrica. It is enticing, exciting and an absolute passion. Fastjet is a brand with immense potential and working with the team, across borders and cultures, presents a massive opportunity for me individually. Can you share some insight regarding fastjet&#x2019;s customers from its key markets Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Zambia and South Africa? Who are they and what do they value? There is a universal theme that holds true for all customers. The right product, the right price, at the right time. In short, delivering a compelling value proposition. Cultural and language nuances aside, this is a fundamental truth across all consumer groups. As we&#x2019;ve often heard, no African country is the same. How will you approach fastjet&#x2019;s various African markets in terms of shaping communications to speak to customers from a particular country while maintaining the overall brand message? The key is simplicity. It is easy for marketers and communicators to overcomplicate everything. It&#x2019;s what we do, but the key lies in accessing simplicity and universal messages that hold true and deliver authenticity. Implementation of a tactical plan based on strategic intent is key, and it is here where message delivery assumes the socio-cultural vehicle of each particular market. What lessons did you learn from your time with Mango and how, in your opinion, will those lessons help you with your marketing and communication strategy and the implementation thereof at fastjet? That is a tough question. Mango has taught me a lot both about my profession and about myself. Lessons are learned every day, and whether in success or less-of-a-success, the experience at Mango was invaluable. While Mango is a domestic carrier and fastjet cross-continental, the principles remain the same and the pursuit of simplicity within a complex environment, similar. What do you look forward to most in working with the fastjet brand? Africa. It is enticing, exciting and an absolute passion. Fastjet is a brand with immense potential and working with the team, across borders and cultures, presents a massive opportunity for me individually. I am just as excited to work with key team members that I have had the privilege to work with at both Mango and SAA &#x2013; Nico Bezuidenhout, who in my opinion is one of the most accomplished airline chief executives globally, Ann Verster who is an exceptional revenue manager, Angelique Claassen, a channels genius as well as the highly-experienced Sylvain Bosc in commercial and Sean Bradley in sales.