ByDesign directors, Vanessa Baard and Kevin WelmanI chatted to some of the gold winners following the 2017 awards ceremony... All the 2017 Prisa Prism Award winners!Winners of the 2017 Public Relations Institute of South Africa's (Prisa) Prism Awards were announced at a ceremony at The Park House of Events on 6 May 2017 following its two-day annual conference...6 May 2017 ByDesign Communications, in partnership with Net#work BBDO, were delighted when they got to take home a gold Prism Award. Their winning Vagina Varsity campaign for client Libresse was also selected as one of the top five campaigns overall for 2016. Kevin Welman, director of ByDesign Communications tells us what winning the award means for the agency and what they plan to do going forward to keep winning these types of prestigious awards. Breaking taboos in the Africa femcare categoryAdvertising agency Net#work BBDO has created Africa's first and only online femcare learning platform called 'Vagina Varsity'...20 Oct 2016 Congratulations on scooping gold at the 2017 Prisa Prism Awards! Please tell us more about this year's win. It was such a surprise and honour to win the 'Healthcare' category, as ByDesign Communications has only been in operation for six months. Every once in a while, you get the opportunity to work on category ground-breaking work. In this instance, we had a fearless client in Libresse and a great communications partner in Net#work BBDO. From the research to the insight to the creative idea, it was all brilliant, and we built a communications programme that was fully integrated that achieved beyond the communications metrics, all the way to changing the client&#x2019;s business. What are the entry and judging criteria for the &#x2018;Healthcare&#x2019; category? The judging criteria are simple. There are five sections: statement of the problem, research, planning, execution and evaluation, but the Prisms reward the extraordinary work that goes above and beyond the norm. What's your winning recipe? In this instance, it was having a great team; the client, Net#work BBDO and ourselves. We thought big and backed the idea&#x2026; simple.