Brands will now be able to utilise the Truecaller app to reach more than 40 million users in Africa through Truecaller Ads. Truecaller launched contextual advertising for brands last year, using its Call Intent based advertising. To date, the company has been focusing in India, and been working closely with Google Sales Team to scale its business. The daily impression on Truecaller&#x2019;s ad platform has grown with over 200% during the last six months. Key growth markets include: Egypt, Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa, Ghana and Morocco. Regions like Nigeria and Egypt are seeing more than 5 million impressions per day, and the latter 15 million impressions. &#x201c;We are very excited to start rolling out our highly anticipated mobile ad platform in Africa. In today&#x2019;s digital era where consumers spend a considerable amount of their time on their mobile devices, it's time to engage with consumers in the most concerted manner for the mobile-first community. We are confident that our unique and innovative ad solutions will deliver excellent results and awareness for Brands in Africa as it already successfully has in other areas.&#x201d; said Ted Nelson, chief commercial officer at Truecaller. Early successful campaigns for global brands like Huawei, Sony, Motorola, and Lipton have been trialled in Africa. Cars45.com are the first partners in Nigeria to get onboard utilising Truecaller Ads. &#x201c;It&#x2019;s a great opportunity for us to roll out with Truecaller as its first advertising partners in West Africa. As a young and dynamic company, we pride ourselves on being disruptors for the automotive industry. We believe it&#x2019;s time to change the car selling behaviour in Nigeria and West Africa at large to compete with the international scene and we believe that Truecaller will give us the ample opportunity to target our niche market,&#x2019;&#x2019; said Etop Ikpe, CEO, Cars45 Nigeria. CARS45 is a Nigerian Tech start up currently changing the way Nigerians sell and buy cars. Cars45 currently has over 15 centres spread across Lagos and Abuja. Truecaller Ads is available to buy programmatically via Doubleclick Bid Manager.