 sam74100 via 123RFIn most African countries, youth unemployment &ldquo;occurs at a rate more than twice that for adults,&rdquo; notes the African Development Bank. African governments are confronting unemployment in many different ways. In Senegal, with 200,000 Senegalese joining the labour market each year, President Macky Sall launched a programme in February 2013 to create 30,000 jobs within a year and possibly 300,000 by 2017. The African Development Bank (AfDB) is financing some of Senegal&rsquo;s self-employment programmes for youth and women.&nbsp; Young women feel the sting of unemployment even more sharply than young men. The AfDB found that in most countries in sub-Saharan Africa and all of those in North Africa, it is easier for men to get jobs than it is for women, even if they have equivalent skills and experience.&nbsp; Africa&rsquo;s unemployment statistics exclude those in vulnerable employment and those who are under-employed in informal sectors. &ldquo;Young people [in Africa] find work, but not in places that pay good wages, develop skills or provide a measure of job security,&rdquo; reports the Brookings Institution, a Washington-based think tank.&nbsp; The Brookings Institution considers under-employment a problem serious enough to warrant greater attention, since it masks the reality in countries that post low unemployment rates.&nbsp; More than 70% of the youth in the &ldquo;Republic of the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Malawi, Mali, Rwanda, Senegal and Uganda are either self-employed or contributing to family work,&rdquo; adds the Brookings Institution report. Under-employment masked&nbsp; Gabriel Benjamin, a jobless university graduate in Lagos, Nigeria, says it is common to find young Nigerian university graduates doing menial jobs. &ldquo;They clean floors in hotels, sell mobile telephone calling cards&mdash;some even work in factories as labourers.&rdquo; But under-employment is not a solution to poverty, notes the International Labour Organization (ILO), which reported in 2016 that up to 70% of African workers were &ldquo;working poor&rdquo;, the highest rate globally. The organisation added that &ldquo;the number of poor working youth has increased by as much as 80% for the past 25 years&rdquo;. Mthuli Ncube, the chief economist at the AfDB, had this to say: &ldquo;This is an unacceptable reality on a continent with such an impressive pool of youth, talent and creativity.&rdquo; Alexander Chikwanda, Zambia&rsquo;s former finance minister, put it succinctly an interview: &ldquo;Youth unemployment is a ticking time bomb&rdquo;, that now appears to be perilously close to exploding. The analogy draws attention to the consequences of high youth unemployment in a continent where about 10-12 million young people join the labour market each year.&nbsp; &ldquo;As events in North Africa [the Arab Spring] have shown, lack of employment opportunities can undermine social cohesion and political stability,&rdquo; the AfDB had warned in 2016. The militant group Boko Haram, for example, has found it easy to recruit jobless young people, noted Ahmad Salkida, a Nigerian journalist who has had rare access to the group. A number of African governments have, however, made some efforts to match words with action. Ghana, for example, created a national youth service and empowerment programmes to equip college graduates with requisite skills and help them find jobs. Mauritius developed a plan to encourage technical and vocational education for young people. Zambia introduced a national youth policy and a youth enterprise fund to stimulate job creation.&nbsp; African leaders intervene The jury is still out as to how much of an impact such national initiatives have had on youth unemployment. Ncube warned against high expectations. There are &ldquo;no quick fixes,&rdquo; he advised, and recommended &ldquo;stronger job-creation mechanisms.&rdquo; The World Bank proposes a jobs strategy that pays more attention to rural development. Investment in agriculture slows down youth migration into urban areas and prepares young people for the contemporary labour market.&nbsp; Young people migrating into Africa&rsquo;s urban areas aggravate city unemployment. They often confront obstacles, including discrimination due to their inexperience, according to&nbsp;African Economic Outlook, a publication of the UN Economic Commission for Africa. Even those who are lucky enough to find employment are the first to be laid off when economic growth derails.&nbsp; Focus on manufacturing, urges the Brookings Institution, because it is &ldquo;the industrial sector which is most closely associated with employment-intensive growth.&rdquo; It also urges more investment in agriculture, tourism and construction, and in projects that employ young people. &ldquo;Public works programmes provide opportunities for young workers, particularly rural residents and people with low skills, to acquire initial work experience.&rdquo; The African Union also lends its voice to the call for more investments in agriculture. The AU requests its members to allocate 15% of their national budgets to agriculture. Mobilising youth Ghanaian opposition politicians used the country&rsquo;s high unemployment rate to mobilise the youth against former president John Dramani Mahama in the country&rsquo;s December 2016 presidential election. Joblessness was one of the main issues that drove the country&rsquo;s many young people to the polling stations to press for a change of government that ushered the current leader, Nana Akufo Addo, into office. &nbsp; During the election campaign some Ghanaian opposition politicians frequently cited a 2016 World Bank report on the employment situation in the country. Authored by Maddalena Honorati and Sara Johansson de Silva, the report stated that only &ldquo;52% of people aged 15-24 were employed, compared to 77% of the entire population,&rdquo; meaning that 48% of these youths did not have jobs.&nbsp; Although the authors attributed the high youth unemployment rate to the fact that about one-third of the youth were active in school, the figure nonetheless underscored the challenge facing the country.&nbsp; &ldquo;I fear for the future of this country,&rdquo; candidate Akufo-Addo warned before the elections, &ldquo;We must do something about the current unemployment rate in Ghana because if care is not taken, something bad may happen.&rdquo; That may have been a subtle reference to some countries in Africa (Nigeria and Somalia, for example) where young people are easily recruited to join armed groups or rebel forces.&nbsp; A World Bank survey in 2011 showed that about 40% of those who join rebel movements say they were driven by a lack of jobs. Source: Africa Renewal.