As South Africa&#x2019;s most loved dairy fruit mix, it&#x2019;s no surprise that Tropika listened to its consumers and created Tropika Slenda. Offering 80% less calories than regular Tropika, and no added sugar, this move by Clover cements their position in the global move towards conscious consumption. Creating a new range for such an established brand is no easy feat &#x2013; especially taking into account that Tropika is not a product traditionally associated with health. &#x201c;We had to challenge that consumer perception in our solution whilst still creating a solid brand fit with Tropika and their fans,&#x201d; says Vanessa Bosman, general manager of Just Design Jhb. &#x201c;Our design clearly communicates the product benefits, in a slender pack format that reinforces the brand positioning of health and beauty.&#x201d; Tropika has become the first brand in the dairy fruit mix market to offer a zero-added sugar drink. Which means that the design solution created will ultimately be setting the category standards for future innovations. Tropika Slenda is the first of many other reduced-sugar products to be launched in SA due to the revised sugar tax laws. Look out for her slinky silver silhouette on the shelves of major retailers countrywide. click to enlarge click to enlarge click to enlarge About Just Design For over fifteen years, Just Design has proven time and again that good thinking leads to great creative. With a national footprint and accounts across Africa, Middle East and Europe, they are the strategic design partners for many blue-chip clients and global brands, and are one of the top packaging design agencies in South Africa. About Tropika Slenda Tropika Slenda is endorsed by Weighless, the Diabetes Foundation and the GI Foundation. It&#x2019;s available in four delicious flavours: Orange with a twist of Passion Fruit, Pineapple with a twist of Kiwi, Litchi with a twist of Lime and Strawberry with a twist of Cranberry. Facebook: facebook.com/tropikaisland Twitter: @MyTropika Instagram: @MyTropika