Image Supplied Says Jean Martins, SA country manager, TCA Abu Dhabi: &#x201c;For this Roadshow, we worked with some of our key partners, including hotels, destination management companies and Abu Dhabi&#x2019;s national airline Etihad Airways &#x2013; all of which showcased the fantastic things the emirate of Abu Dhabi has to offer.&#x201d; A base for exploration In-depth discussions focused on how agents can use Abu Dhabi as a base to explore the highly-acclaimed Legoland, Legoland Water Park, Bollywood, Motiongate and Riverland, situated within a 40 min drive from Abu Dhabi. New attractions in Abu Dhabi such as Turbo Track, Clymb, Sea World and Warner Bros Theme Park were also highlighted. Dubai's new mega theme park opens in OctoberTickets for Dubai's new multi-theme park go on sale in South Africa next month. Opening in October, Dubai Parks and Resorts brings together the best of the East and the West...28 Jul 2016 It was also announced at the roadshow that the much-anticipated opening of the Louvre Abu Dhabi will be toward the end of 2017. &#x201c;Besides the unique design of the museum, once opened, Louvre Abu Dhabi will display works of historical, cultural and sociological significance from ancient times to the contemporary era and will encompass 9,200 sqm of art galleries,&#x201d; adds Martins. With the Abu Dhabi cruise tourism segment expected to attract around 450,000 cruise passengers by 2020, TCA Abu Dhabi&#x2019;s Cruising in Abu Dhabi team also hosted a special presentation informing agents of the opportunities available to their clients. Monique Coomer, attending in Durban on behalf of iGo Travel says: &#x201c;Abu Dhabi is growing in leaps and bounds where nothing is too much trouble. It has a bit of everything. It is a golfers&#x2019; paradise, it has a unique blend of city and holiday feel and Yas Island is ideal for business travellers and sports enthusiasts. Honeymooners and business travellers can also stay connected in the dunes with Wi-Fi opportunities available throughout the city."