Twice the size of its current premises, the new 8,400m2 custom-built facility comprises 400m2 of offices and an 8,000m2 warehouse. It also features a large yard and offers future expansion capability of around 2,000m2. Located just off the main arterial of Atlas Road in Boksburg, its neighbours include PG Bison, Colgate, Unilever and Quality Beverages. Growthpoint site redevelopment Growthpoint Properties Industrial Division head Engelbert Binedell explains that the R70m Maxishare project is the complete redevelopment of an existing Growthpoint site. &#x201c;We identified the strong potential of this site some time ago and rezoned it in preparation for the right project. We are thrilled to develop this made-to-measure property around Maxishare&#x2019;s business goals and provide this company with a strong foundation to meet its specific operational needs,&#x201d; comments Binedell. Maxishare is primarily a distributor of imported and locally produced welded mesh. Its product range also includes diamond mesh, field fencing, hexagonal wire netting, galvanised flat sheet metal, stainless steel feeding bowls, binding wire, clips and pliers, stainless steel weldmesh, insect screening, swivel feeders, cage doors and wire cutters. Permanent cranes Growthpoint Properties industrial development manager Leon Labuschagne explains that to deliver a tailor-made property that supports Maxishare&#x2019;s specific requirements, Growthpoint incorporated permanent cranes into the building&#x2019;s design. The facility has a larger-than-normal foundation to provide the strength for the heavy machinery it will house. The property also provides Maxishare with the option of solar power. It features a strengthened roof structure which can hold the extra weight of solar panels. Among the challenges the Growthpoint development team faced on this project was its tight construction programme. &#x201c;Keeping Maxishare&#x2019;s time frames top priority, we investigated ways to match the construction timelines to meet their target dates. To achieve this, we applied the latest technology in tilt-up columns, which are built on the ground and then raised with a crane,&#x201d; explains Labuschagne. In this way, Growthpoint aims to ensure the facility will be complete by July 2017.