Winners, Amri Botha and Carina Coetzee with Lynne Wylie from CinemarkBotha and Coetzee will go on to join other Young Lions at this year's Cannes Festival for the opportunity of being crowned the Young Lions of Cannes 2017 in the 'Film' category, which follows the same 48-hour format. The Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity and the Young Lions competition take place in Cannes, France, from Saturday, 17 June to Saturday, 24 June. SOUTH AFRICA South Africa's Cannes Young Lions are ready to roar!Cannes Lions is just a few days away. SA's own Safaraaz Sindhi, copywriter at Network BBDO and jack-of-all-creative-trades Hanro Havenga tell us what they're most looking forward to...By Leigh Andrews 18 Jun 2015 Cinemark will be flying the winning team to Cannes, courtesy of Air France, to attend the festival and compete in the global competition. The prize list comprises of: Return flights Accommodation during the festivalEntry into the Cannes Young Lions competitionA full week&#x2019;s registration to attend the festival"We were actually expecting something different for Unicef but when we received the brief, we decided to go for it and so glad we did," an excited Coetzee told me. The teams only had 48 hours to complete the task, from brief to concept to shooting, editing and the final production of a 60 second commercial. Botha says the win is a massive achievement for the two of them who worked together finding a creative concept to fit the theme, &#x2018;cyber-bullying&#x2019;. &#x201c;We did this project not just to win but because cyber-bullying is such a big issue in the world today,&#x201d; she added. Amri says it was very important for them to get the right message across to make young people stop, pay attention and listen because it is such an important topic. In addition to their trip of a lifetime, the winning team&#x2019;s commercial will also be flighted in Ster-Kinekor cinemas, and will be used by Unicef South Africa to boost its current anti-bullying campaign.