Alex Kyriakidis (President and Managing Director Middle East and Africa Marriott International) and Saleh Said (Director Pennyroyal Gibraltar)The signing of The Ritz-Carlton, Zanzibar took place at an intimate ceremony attended by the owners Saleh Said and Brian Thomson, directors of Pennyroyal Gibraltar Limited and Alex Kyriakidis, president and managing director, Middle East and Africa, Marriott International, along with other executives from both companies. Enticing the affluent travelers to visit Zanzibar &#x201c;Celebrated as one of the world&#x2019;s most exotic destinations, Zanzibar, is a perfect destination for The Ritz-Carlton,&#x201d; said Kyriakidis. &#x201c;The Archipelago has the potential to strengthen its position as a key leisure destination in the Indian Ocean and to effectively compete with the more established islands of Mauritius, Seychelles, and Maldives. The Ritz-Carlton Zanzibar will compliment Marriott International&#x2019;s strong presence in the Indian Ocean and provide the necessary impetus to put the destination on the global itinerary of our guests.&#x201d; Said and Thomson added, &#x201c;We are delighted to partner with Marriott International to debut The Ritz-Carlton in such a culturally significant destination and are confident that the brand&#x2019;s allure, coupled with Marriott International&#x2019;s strong base of loyal guests, will entice the affluent travellers to visit this enchanting destination, making it one of the most coveted resorts in the region.&#x201d; Inspired by the island&#x2019;s tropical tableau and unique culture The Ritz-Carlton, Zanzibar will be an all-suite and villa resort with 90 luxuriously appointed spaces including overwater villas, each with its own private pool and a distinctly contemporary design inspired by the island&#x2019;s tropical tableau and unique culture. It will boast of a distinctive dining scene with four restaurants and bars allowing The Ritz-Carlton chefs to showcase their culinary versatility and engage with guests through curated and immersive dining experiences. Leisure facilities will include an outdoor pool, a health club, a beach club and a kids club. Guests will have access to a tranquil spa with eight private spa suites offering individual and couple treatments as well as outdoor treatments. An intimate meeting facility will complement the resort facilities for personalised and bespoke events. The hotel will be part of the Amber Resort complex expected to be the largest mixed-use development in Africa occupying approximately 1,750 hectares of pristine Indian Ocean coastline in the northeast of the island. The complex proposes to provide an integrated high-end lifestyle experience with a marina, a signature golf course designed by Ernie Els, residential villas and condominiums as well as leisure and entertainment facilities including a water park, and an equestrian center. Zanzibar Amber Resort to change the face of East African tourismZanzibar is set to undergo a transformation with a mega luxury development and global marketing campaign set to put it on the map as a leading tropical tourism destination...30 Mar 2017 The Ritz-Carlton brand currently operates 12 properties across the Middle East and Africa and is gearing up to open hotels in Amman (Jordan), Tunis (Tunisia), Ras Al Khaimah (UAE), Sharm El Sheikh (Egypt) and three properties across Morocco &#x2013; Tamuda Bay, Marrakech, and Rabat. The Ritz-Carlton, Zanzibar will be a significant addition to this fast growing brand portfolio across the region.