The service is focused on promoting road safety and reducing road accidents by improving driver behaviour and identifying those drivers who are a risk to other road users. Studies indicate a host of benefits linked to a driver monitoring service, including a 52% reduction in accident-related costs, and 20% fewer accidents in vehicles displaying safety hotline stickers. &#x201c;Our products and services provide enterprise fleets, small fleets and consumers with solutions for efficiency, safety, compliance and security. While telematics cannot always immediately notify the fleet manager when the driver breaks the rules of the road, MiX ReportMyDriving helps identify high-risk drivers that require additional training and/or counselling, and recognition can be given to good drivers. "Driver and fleet profiling enables fleet managers to mitigate their business&#x2019; on-road risk and reduces business costs relating to accidents, insurance and fleet maintenance. This is a great extension of our successful business model and further demonstrates our commitment to road safety,&#x201d; says Gert Pretorius, managing director at MiX Telematics (Africa). Safety hotline The success of the programme is based on a combination of factors, including the placement of safety hotline stickers on vehicles, the 24/7 MiX Journey Management Centre that operates the hotline, and the incident investigation process that follows. Once an incident is reported via the hotline 0861580580 or www.reportmydriving.co.za, a driver&#x2019;s manager is notified of the incident and receives a system-generated report. If the client also has a MiX Fleet Manager solution in place, for example, additional vehicle and driver data will be used to investigate the driving incident. The telematics information can determine which driver identification tag was used for the vehicle involved in a reported incident, thus confirming the responsible driver. The telematics data will also confirm that the vehicle was at the reported location, and provide additional information such as the speed at which the vehicle was travelling at the time. If a MiX Vision in-cab video solution is in place, the video and audio footage at the time of the reported incident will provide additional information to analyse the event in detail.