This technology was used to build brand awareness of the new BMW 5 Series. The Vizeum team used three different creative ads (banners, video, rich media) synchronised with various TV spots contained in their above-the-line TV schedule. The business challenge given was to launch the new BMW 5 Series to the market, to achieve awareness of the model and as a result of activity - sales of the new model in the SA market. The key insight and strategy created by Vizeum was that the BMW 5 Series target audience is time starved, which meant that any media booked needed to take this into account and make it as easy as possible to consume. This work displays innovation within digital to achieve business results. Digitally synching ads with the TV spots that were run allowed Vizeum to meet BMW's innovation brand ideal, which is core to their business approach. The innovation was a market-first example of TV syncing, by combining TV spots their digital advertising to the same target audience through TV sync, Vizeum was able to improve performance as a result of the extra layer of brand association gained from seeing an ad on TV, and your mobile phone at the same time. The ads (rich media, video, banners) were scheduled to fire to the target audience during the same time that our TV spots were flighting for the campaign, giving a through the line brand experience not seen before in South Africa. Kelvin Storie, group managing director for Vizeum SA, stated, &#x201c;In our quest to be digital first and drive innovation for our clients, I am very proud of this piece of work which takes the continuous topic of multi-screening and makes it a reality. The market is continuously evolving and we need to have a major step-change in how we plan audio visual content. A great collaborative effort between the Vizeum team and Y Digital.&#x201d; &#x201c;The world is evolving rapidly and changing consumer behaviour. At BMW, we are focussed on being as relevant to consumers as possible and this means staying on top of digital as well as technology trends that make it convenient and seamless for consumers to interact with the brand,&#x201d; said Alexander Baraka, general manager for BMW Brand Management & BMW Group Marketing Services South Africa & Sub-Saharan Africa. Ricky Hendricks, head of digital for Vizeum South Africa, said, &#x201c;As a media agency with digital at the core of all our strategy and recommendations, synching TV with our digital advertising for the BMW 5 Series launch provided us with the opportunity to showcase this thinking in a way that addressed an important business problem for the brand. Innovation is key for both BMW and Vizeum and when we&#x2019;re able to innovate based on data insights in a way that solves business problems, this puts us at the forefront of what is happening within digital marketing.&#x201d;