Willmott and Moulder proving their skills both behind and in front if the selfie lens 1. Where do you live, work and play? Willmott: I live in a small remote town up the west coast, called Melkbosstrand, work at 30 Barnet Street, just off Dunkley Square in Gardens, and I find people take life and work way too seriously so try make the most of every opportunity and have fun wherever I am and whatever I'm doing. That's why I'm trying get a new skate ramp approved for the new office! Moulder: I live with my family in an old victorian house in Woodstock and work out of a building in Gardens, just off Dunkley Square. My play time has been lacking somewhat over the last few years with work, kids and spending time with friends keeping me busy. But hey, that's no excuse. I'll grab a skateboard in the office every now and again and try and pop a 360-flip without falling too badly! 2. What&#x2019;s your claim to fame? Willmott: Me and Riaan Cruywagen hung once. I also had the opportunity to visit Google Plex. Moulder: I was first in South Africa for skateboarding for a while and tried to repeat that in surfing but opted out of becoming a professional surfer for design and computers instead. 3. Describe your career so far. Willmott: July this year it would have been 10 years of co-running Urbian and all I can say is: it's been a wild ride! From coder to product manager to company founder to startup founder. Moulder: I studied classic graphic design at AAA, but left after two years, my first job was in a digital shop making CD-Roms &#x2013; that gives away my age! I then continued to spend time in digital agencies as a youngster, working late into the night on deadlines to make the best face-melting work possible. I freelanced for a while, as people do, and then finally founded Urbian with my good mate Gary Willmott, which would take us to 10 years of being in business July this year. In the 10 years of being in Urbian, I've gone from loving very design-led digital work to becoming a company that actually builds its own startups. So, less concerned with pure execution and code and heading more into the venture space, which involves an understanding of how to build something fast as well as how to make money from it. Goodness, how things have changed! If you asked me 10 years ago if I would be a business owner that runs a company that makes robust software, creates startups and invests in companies, I would have laughed at you! 4. Tell us a few of your favourite things. Willmott: Working with amazing smart people. Making products people actually use, then watching the data unfold &#x2013; I'm a data geek! Watching people grow into a career that they didn't even perceive was possible. Moulder: It may sound fluffy, but I really get a kick out of working with people that love what they do. I hate the idea of working in a company that feels like a boring place full of bosses, managers and employees. ARGH! Gross. After all you spend so much of your time at work, that it might as well be fun, for crying out loud. I want to work with a group of people that laugh a lot, are super smart and have fun. I really like food. I think it all started when I shared a house with a chef once. He opened my eyes to the crazy world of high-end food. I like to make it, I like it eat it and I like watching amazing chefs create it. It's fascinating. Netflix is my friend for this food inspiration. 5. What do you love about your industry? Willmott: Tech is rapidly changing and evolving, it's almost impossible to get bored. I know this term gets overused, however, the opportunity to 'disrupt' or change the way people do their everyday job or task is an amazing opportunity. Moulder: My industry is obviously digital product, which is design and technology. Man alive, software is eating the world and every industry is being disrupted by this. It's amazing. Sometimes I have to pinch myself. Is this really happening while I'm alive? So exciting, man. A time when a kid with a computer can make a business built with software and not bricks and steal and become rich doing it. A time when someone in Africa gets blood delivered to them where no cars can drive. 6. Describe your average workday, if such a thing exists. Willmott: As I'm spinning multiple plates, I try to block off time and get structured about my day as much as possible:6am to 7am: Clear my head by going for an early surf or walk the dogs. 7am to 8am: Breakfast with the family. 8am to 9am: Commute / Check emails / Plan my day. I'm a big fan of the &#x2018;three frogs&#x2019; productivity method. 9 am to 5pm: (Depending on the day of the week, I'm doing one of the following)Meetings (as few as possible). Following up on new business requests. Empowering and assisting the product teams to create amazing products. Following up on finance. Recruiting engineers, product owners and designers to help us build products (easier said than done).Customer success: Touch base with key clients and work out how we can do better work and look for more opportunities to help make their lives easier. 5pm to 6pm: Commute/Check emails. 6pm to 9pm: Spend quality time with friends and family.10pm to 12am Follow up on any planning work or read some inspirational books and content to help us keep doing what we do best.</li> Moulder: 7am/7:30am: I generally wake up at about this time. My lovely wife makes me coffee and my little girl brings it to me, trying not to spill. I spend a few minutes alone, just me and God, and connect a bit. I check my calendar for the day to decide whether I should put on a shirt or wear my cut-off jeans with slops.8am to 9am: Leave to go to work. Sometimes in my car, sometimes Uber. Get to work, greet everyone and sit down to check email. 9am to 5pm: My days are generally spent doing the following in various orders: Meeting with internal teams to review some adoption stats on a project we just launched, a business case, prototype and/or link on a staging server before going live. Meet with a new client partner on what they are wanting to do, helping to distill what we can build that is going to move the needle and have a real impact. Get behind my computer and do some work of my own. Meeting with someone who seems like a potential fit for an open position we need to fill. Eat food at some stage or grab nuts out of a draw in my desk.Check some more email at the end of the day.6pm to 7:30pm: Get home and play hide and seek with my girl. See some friends and family. 8pm to 9pm: Have dinner with the family. 10pm onwards: Catch up on all the items on my to-do list that I wasn't able to get to in the day and plan for tomorrow. 7. What are the tools of your trade? Willmott: Everything I use is in the cloud. Email: We have been using Google G Suite since inception, can't imagine life without it. Wunderlist: It's a great cross-device to-do list tool. Keynote: For presenting. Google Music: Gets me through the day.Podcasts: Source of learning and inspiration. Slack: Messaging tool for the team. I have a love/hate relationship with it. ActiveCollab: Scheduling and product roadmap sprints for the teams. Google Hangout/Skype for con-calls with clients. Backpack: I travel quite a bit and I try to squeeze in everything under hand luggage &#x2013; I hate checking in luggage. Airbnb and Uber for travelling.Google Keep and paper for notes and thoughts. Moulder: Google G Suite for email, docs, spreadsheets.Live off the Mac Calendar, sorry (linked to Google Calendar, of course). Wunderlist for my to-do lists, whether business or personal. I live in Keynote, starting to get into Google Slides. Twitter for news and current events. Pocket for saving stuff from Twitter and reading thought leadership pieces. Podcasts for listening to thought leadership pieces. Pipedrive for our new business pipeline management tool. Slack: Messaging tool for the team. Need to learn how to mute channels though. ActiveCollab: Scheduling and product roadmap sprints for the teams. Google Maps for travelling, Waze when I think there is traffic. Airbnb and Uber for travelling. 8. Who is getting it right in your industry? Willmott: 'Made By Many' and 'UsTwo' are great product companies that are inspirational and on the leading edge of product design. Moulder: Betaworks, Science Inc and Expa are great startup studios that we aspire to the business model of. 9. List a few pain points the industry can improve on. Willmott: The problem with our line of work is that it is generally too far-fetched for your average client, hence a lot of education and hand-holding is required. Alternatively, we look for brave clients, who are open to &#x2018;failing forward&#x2019; and risking with us. The best products require a large amount of risk and diving into what hasn't been done before &#x2013; we are in the innovation business, after all. Moulder: There is too much painting the horse with black stripes and calling it a zebra. Words like disruption, agile, technology, digital product and UX has everyone just cutting and pasting these services onto what they already do when they don't have a clue what they are doing, and clients believe them. Consultancies and ad agencies all present work they have already done as innovative product work and it's just not. When a consultancy takes 6 months to hand a client a 300-slide deck and says: "There is your innovation strategy," that is ridiculous. A startup has shipped a real product to real consumers in that time. When an ad agency sells a Facebook app or marketing website as a 'platform for consumer engagement', I just want to say: &#x201c;Really guys. C'mon, if you haven't built a product that someone wants to come back and use every day by providing some kind of utility, all you have done is consult or marketing.&#x201d; 10. What are you working on right now? Willmott: My main focus to continue and scale the success of one of our own internal products called Hi5, a recognition and peer-review platform. Moulder: I'm helping our team gear up to scale a new service we built and operate for a client this year. It&#x2019;s going HUGE! I'm in the middle of buttoning down a potential new joint venture we want to dive into. I'm helping define an MVP based on business cases for a few new clients who want to build projects with us in the finance, insurance, FMCG and self-storage space. A new team of 5 people from Next have also just joined us and I&#x2019;m spending a lot of time trying to blend our cultures, making sure we like each other. 11. Tell us some of the buzzwords floating around in your industry at the moment, and some of the catchphrases you utter yourself. Willmott: Disruption, innovation, product. I generally find a lot of companies 'talk-the-talk', but don't have any previous products to show. Moulder: Disruption. Innovation. Product. MVP. Platform. AI. 12. Where and when do you have your best ideas? Willmott: When I'm switching off, usually whilst surfing or travelling. Moulder: In the most random, unrelated moments when what I'm doing is far unrelated to any kind of work like travelling in the car. The shower is another regular place, where it is tricky to write anything down. 13. What&#x2019;s your secret talent/party trick? Willmott: I try to encourage mandatory Hawaiian shirt wearing on a Friday. Also, capturing weird people having conversations on the plane. Moulder: None, I'm super mediocre at parties. My moustache carries most of my personality. 14. Are you a technophobe or a technophile? Willmott: Generally a technophile, however, on the weekends I try switch off completely. Moulder: I'm unfortunately an insanely curious person, which makes me a technophile, I suppose, but I'm really trying to be ruthless and stop the constant need I feel of trying to read the internet every few days. 15. What would we find if we scrolled through your phone? Willmott: Most of the tools listed above. Moulder: Screenshots of apps and micro-services that have sparked a thought. Pictures of friends. Videos of Leo at the aquarium and doing funny stuff &#x2013; I'm a real dad in love with my daughter. 16. What advice would you give to newbies hoping to crack into the industry? Willmott: Punch above your weight class and take on something that you haven't done before. No one is going to spoonfeed you &#x2013; it's up to you to master your own destiny. If you&#x2019;re not sure how to do something, Google it! Use every spare minute to learn how to code, even if you aren't a coder. It will change the way you think for the better. Moulder: Don't wait for a qualification or permission to do the best work of your life! You've got one life &#x2013; make it count. Don't get stuck in a job you hate, doing stuff for money. Go for it. If you don't know how to do it, &#x2018;leargle&#x2019;: that's learning through Google. Don't wait for permission or recognition. You can do anything. It's not about your skill; it's about being a person who is more of a doer than a talker. Simple as that. Be sure to follow Willmott&#x2019;s blog: ttomlliwyrag&#64;/moc.muidem//:sptth and Twitter account, You can also click here and here for Moulder&#x2019;s views on technology and the revolution of usefulness, and follow him on the following social media channels: Twitter | Instagram | Medium: redluoMnotnA&#64;/moc.muidem//:sptth . *Interviewed by Leigh Andrews.