Chalets offer exquisite mountain views &#x201c;Midlands Saddle and Trout has been the darling of the Midlands for many years and this refurbishment investment is our commitment to ensuring that the resort remains unique and appealing, and continues to exceed the expectations of today&#x2019;s shared vacation owner,&#x201d; said Tim Spencer, hotel director for the First Group. The two-year project got underway last year with the first phase unveiled at the end of 2016 and the final phase scheduled for completion by the end of 2017. The spacious chalets, that offer exquisite 360-degree views of the mountains and lush green dairy farms, have been enhanced with an interior design that conjures a warm and inviting ambiance. Designer rugs, the reupholstering of the furniture with luxurious and stylish earthy fabrics, beautiful neutral shades of silk-like fabric curtains on classic wooden rods and original acrylic artworks come together to create an upmarket contemporary look while adding vibrant colour and appeal to the living space. A softer mood has been created in the bedrooms with recessed downlighters. Extra-depth luxury mattresses and anti-allergenic 200-gram cotton poly percale sheets and pillows give the reassurance of a rest filled vacation. The contemporary design extends through to the bathroom and kitchen where striking solid brass and high-gloss nickel plated trimmings add the finishing touches to this transformation. A fun-filled farm In addition to the chalets, the refurbishment also includes 10 kilometres of new paddock fencing, a fun-filled animal farm and a newly renovated restaurant and menu that confidently competes with the best that the Midlands Meander has to offer. Midlands Saddle and Trout Resort forms part of the First Group&#x2019;s R179 million refurbishment project that is being rolled out across the property portfolio. This timeshare resort offers a truly English landscape that is unique to the Midlands Meander with the enjoyment of exhilarating onsite entertainment from horse riding to trout fishing, golf, and a first-class wellness spa.