Lyn Jones When and why were you appointed regional manager for In Touch Media? I was appointed regional manager for In Touch Media at the beginning of May this year to consolidate the company&#x2019;s current business in Gauteng, as well as establish In Touch Media in the region and the greater sub-Saharan Africa, where a large proportion of South Africa&#x2019;s business is conducted. What does your new role entail? My new role is to capitalise on the varied media, marketing and advertising experience I have gathered over the years, and elevate ITM&#x2019;s OOH offering to include OOH strategy supported by credible and empirical research. In a nutshell, my task is to grow the business base and credibility of the company by assisting in the growth of the many entrepreneurial and small business brands and their products in this region and into Africa. What are some of the opportunities and challenges currently facing the company? In Touch Media services a niche area within the market. We assist smaller agencies and businesses who do not have the resources and acumen to scientifically complement their media plans with comprehensive OOH cover that improves the efficiencies and incremental reach and frequency within a media mix. The purchasing and implementation of OOH advertising can be time-consuming and laborious, so coupled with strategic OOH and other media insights we are able to take the strategy, implementation and production of any OOH campaign off clients' hands in a transparent and efficient manner. How do you plan to grow the company? OOH is often an afterthought within media plans in large media strategies. This has largely been due to the lack of outdoor advertising measurement, however with the launch of the OMC&#x2019;s Road Survey in South Africa, outdoor advertising can now be accounted for in the same way as TV, radio, print and other traditional media, and demonstrate its value within the media mix. I plan to grow the business base by demonstrating the value and ROI that OOH affords, as well as continue to deliver outstanding services and transparency to all our stakeholders. The integration of digital channels with digital out of home platforms and relevant content will provide further avenues for growth. Comment on your previous experience and how it has led you to your new position. I was fortunate to be able to spearhead, implement and launch the Out of Home Measurement Council and its revolutionary outdoor research methodology with key outdoor media owners, and coupled with the 12 years OOH experience I accumulated whilst at JCDecaux Africa as marketing and research manager; Sub-Saharan Africa, my new position allows me to embrace the full OOH process with confidence. What do you love most about your career in out of home? OOH is omni-present and it works! Whether it&#x2019;s big, small, indoors, outdoors, mobile, static or digital, when placed in relevant and appropriate environments it reaches consumers in the right place and at the right time. It is gratifying and exciting to see campaigns endorsed by our new measurement metrics, as well as pre- and post-campaign evaluations and noting studies that prove it provides a key influence with consumers and their purchase decisions. OOH is growing and evolving into a strategic and imperative medium to have within the media mix. Depending on campaign objectives, it can provide key performance throughout the purchase cycle from brand-building, impact, reach, frequency, online search and interaction all the way to the point of purchase! In addition to relevant placement and solutions, the creativity that OOH allows is staggering. If you can imagine it, it can be done! So, yes, I love it! What industry trends do you predict for the next year? Consumers and their connectivity, social and digital media stickiness, urbanisation and the resultant surge in consumerism that this creates is driving how marketers speak with their current and prospective consumers. Whilst digital OOH and interactivity will drive the growth within the sector, traditional OOH formats will maintain their relevance and role in building and maintaining brand awareness. OOH legislation will drive the de-cluttering of roadside signage to benefit messaging. Along with this I see additional focus placed closer to points of purchase, travel and social hubs, with marketing messages becoming more streamlined and engineered, designed to catch and hold consumers throughout their day and elevate their brand experience. The production and delivery of relevant content will support marketing efforts to the increasingly connected, savvy and social consumer, both young and old. In addition, I am hopeful that the outdoor media owners that are not yet participating in OMC&#x2019;s Road Survey will see the value that the measurement provides for their business, and that of their clients, so that the universe of panels within the system is more demonstrative of the total market. What's at the top of your to-do list? I am taking stock of the industry and am looking forward to meeting all the OOH media owners. What inspires you? I am and continue to be inspired by the people that have and continue to selflessly provide their time and effort in building the skills base and structures within the advertising media industry through Amasa, the AMF, Pamro and other non-profit industry bodies. What are you currently reading/listening to for work? Tell us something about yourself not generally known. I studied fine art at university and somehow deviated through different career paths to land up where I am. I believe I am a very creative thinker, and more specifically, when I have the time, love nothing better than to spend the day watercolour painting.