 William Perugini via 123RFLeading US food companies will meet southern African buyers and showcase a diversified range of foods and beverages at the Food &amp; Hospitality Africa Expo in Johannesburg, 7-9 May 2017. With the top three sub-Saharan African export destinations &ndash; Nigeria, South Africa and Ethiopia &ndash; accounting for a combined total of around $2.3 billion in food exports in 2016, USDA believes sub-Saharan Africa is a receptive market for a wide range of US food and beverage products. Consumer-oriented product categories are reported to be growing particularly strongly, with US exports of prepared foods, condiments/sauces, and dairy products all increasing over the past five years. Aiming to raise awareness of a broader range of American food products and boost bilateral trade, major US food and beverage businesses will exhibit popular consumer brands, including health foods, condiments and beverages, at the Food &amp; Hospitality Africa Expo 2017. The expo will be held from&nbsp;7-9 May 2017&nbsp;at the Gallagher Convention Centre in Johannesburg. Among the popular US brands to be showcased at Food &amp; Hospitality Africa Expo 2017 are: the famous Hershey&rsquo;s, Wonka and Reese&rsquo;s chocolates; Starbucks Frappuccino flavoured beverages; new-to-SA Calypso lemonades and flavoured ice products; Kellogg&rsquo;s Pop-Tarts; Pringles USA snacks; Arizona Iced Tea &ndash; the biggest iced tea brand in the US; the full range of Pinnacle foods; Duncan Hines cake mixes and toppings, French&rsquo;s Mustard; and Frank&rsquo;s hot sauce. Numerous sauces, condiments, preserves, spices and beverages will be exhibited, along with a huge range of convenience products, snacks and sweet treats such as Marshmallow Fluff, Toxic Waste sour candy, Banana Joe Chips, gums and candies. Also on show will be top quality organic and gluten-free products for health-conscious consumers. The USA Pavilion at the expo is supported by the USDA Foreign Agricultural Service and the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture.&nbsp;Enterprise Florida, an organisation representing manufacturers and producers in the American state of Florida, will also exhibit at the expo. The participating US food producers will hold meetings with southern African importers, distributors and retailers during their visit to Johannesburg.