The Thanks SA! two-month campaign, launching at the end of May, incorporates nine of the group&#x2019;s most popular brands: Bokomo Weet-Bix and Bokomo Cereals, White Star Super Maize Meal, Spekko Rice, Liqui-Fruit, Wild Island, Sasko Flour, Sasko Bread, and the Imbo range of beans, lentils, sago, popcorn, barley and stampkoring. The purchase of any product from the range of the nine brands qualifies a consumer for a chance to win one of 144,000 instant prizes to the value of R3 million, comprising airtime vouchers, meal vouchers and cash prizes. In addition, because traders are an important part of the food retail landscape, the group has extended the campaign to offer them the chance of winning R400,000 worth of free stock, after they spend a minimum of R50,000 over a six week period. Sasko Bread is also running an on-pack promotion with millions of airtime minutes for consumers who enter via USSD by sending an SMS and the unique code found within the packaging. Pioneer's biggest consumer campaign According to Pioneer&#x2019;s chief marketing officer, Martin Neethling, this campaign is unique in many ways. &#x201c;Aside from being one of the biggest consumer campaigns we have ever run, we chose to launch it across categories with nine of our most popular power brands instead of just focusing on one brand. This way we ensure the competition is more accessible and consumers have multiple chances to enter for each of the power brands they purchase.&#x201d; &#x201c;We decided to use USSD as the entry mechanism given that almost every South African has access to a cellphone. We also felt it was important to offer instant prize vouchers that reward our consumers in the ways that they appreciate. Everyone needs airtime, spending time at a restaurant with friends or family is one of life&#x2019;s special treats and who doesn&#x2019;t need some extra cash nowadays?&#x201d; The Thanks SA! flying heart logo will be displayed in more than 550 retailers (including Pick n Pay, Spar, Checkers, Shoprite) and wholesalers, at the point of sale. In addition to a dedicated television and print advertising campaign and extensive social media outreach, the campaign will culminate with a reality TV shopping show on SABC 2 and M-Net.