At a classy ceremony in Sandton, the three-year-old newcomer was the talk of the night after scooping six awards in key categories, upstaging more established and older competition. Power Drive, which was previously hosted by Thabiso Tema and produced by Neo Leeuw, won Best Afternoon Drive Show, while Power Talk, hosted by Iman Rappetti and produced by Mava Kuselo, won Best Daytime Show. &#x201c;Thabiso and Neo delivered a brilliant product all through 2016 and this prompted us to move Thabiso to host Power Breakfast in 2017, a move that has now been vindicated even by those outside of Power House. Iman is away on a short holiday in the US, after stepping down from her television role, and we were on the phone with her as soon as she and Mava were announced. She was very excited to win her first award in radio. She is in love with radio and radio is in love with Iman, so I&#x2019;m certain there will be many more such awards for her and her partner, Mava,&#x201d; says Andile Khumalo, Managing Director of Power 98.7. The popular weekly sports show, Power Sports Extra, hosted by the SAB Sports Journalist of the Year 2016, Thabiso Mosia, and produced by Katlego Modiba, won Best Sports Show, against some very tough and established competition. &#x201c;If you consider that Power Sports Extra, which airs once a week on a Friday afternoon, was in competition with daily shows from some of the biggest commercial radio stations throughout South Africa, you can&#x2019;t help but be proud of this winning combination of Thabiso and Katlego. Their success bodes well not just for Power 98.7 but the broader MSG Afrika group, especially with the launch of the two additional stations in the Eastern Cape and Free State &#x2013; an opportunity I am confident the two of them will grab with both hands,&#x201d; added Khumalo. Another highlight of the evening was the announcement of Power 98.7 winning the Best Station Imaging Award, which was duly collected by Head of Production at Power House, Linda Manganye. The award represents the full on-air identity and personality of the radio station. Power Update, presented by Jeremy Maggs and produced by Neo Leeuw, scooped the Best News and Actuality Show. In addition to the show awards, Neo Leeuw also won the hotly contested Best Content Producer award for Power Update. &#x201c;There is not a single person at Power House who is surprised by young Neo Leeuw&#x2019;s success at the radio awards this year. Her work ethic is second to none. She is constantly pushing boundaries and wanting only the best of her work going on air. She deserves all these accolades and we are very proud of her,&#x201d; concluded Khumalo.