Conveniently located just 500m from the airport, the Southern Sun O.R. Tambo International Airport offers a complimentary return shuttle service that departs every 15 minutes, day and night. There&#x2019;s also a free bus service to the nearby Rhodesfield station, which is part of the Gautrain high-speed rapid rail transit system. Popular with business guests With such easy access, it&#x2019;s not surprising that the Southern Sun O.R. Tambo International Airport hotel is popular with business guests. The hotel has seven conference and function facilities that can accommodate up to 480 delegates. And for those who prefer working alone, there&#x2019;s a fully-equipped business centre too. The hotel is also ideal for leisure travellers who have extra time and would prefer not to spend it in the terminal before a flight. Highlights include a fitness centre, an outdoor pool, and Caroline&#x2019;s Day Spa. It offers a range of packages and treatments, which you can tailor based on how much time you have or how much you need to recover after your trip. Mediterranean dishes at Bernoulli&#x2019;s Restaurant Every evening, the hotel offers complimentary wine and snacks (accompanied with live music during the week). But it&#x2019;s best not to fill up on these if you&#x2019;re having dinner at Bernoulli&#x2019;s Restaurant, which offers a choice of Mediterranean dishes. I was tempted by the buffet but chose to be patient and order a la carte. This meant I could enjoy some of the Asian dishes from Chang An Song, the chef who has completed his training in Switzerland, China, and South Africa. Starter highlights include the Peking Duck Consomm (garnished with chicken and prawn Wanton, fresh coriander, snow peas, shitake mushrooms and infused with truffle oil) and the pan-fried duck breast fillet (served on a saut ed warm vegetable salad). If you want a light meal, go with the Nasi Goreng, an Indonesian dish that features fried jasmine rice with egg, chicken, and prawn. Meaty classics and dazzling desserts What if you&#x2019;re feeling hungry after a day of bad airplane food? Fill up on some interesting takes on meaty classics: the baked springbok loin (served with mature brie cheese and fig confit drizzled with spicy chocolate-enhanced jus) or the African oxtail (slow braised beef served with dumplings). And for dessert, there&#x2019;s the classic tiramisu (infused with Amarula) and the chocolate lava cake (served with a scoop of mascarpone cheese). For guests who don&#x2019;t have time for a sit-down meal, the bar is open 24/7 and serves light meals. And for those who are too tired to be social, the hotel offers a dining service in its 366 stylish en-suite rooms. It&#x2019;s easy to get comfortable while enjoying options that include a range of sandwiches, burgers, and wraps. Just make sure you don&#x2019;t miss your flight! Eugene Yiga was a guest of Southern Sun O.R. Tambo International Airport. Call +27 11 977 3600, email: moc.nusogost&#64;snoitavreser.obmatross , or visit the Tsogo Sun website.