 JavadR via pixabay.comWith the FBI estimating that profits relating to ransomware exceeded a billion dollars last year, it is clear to see why it is such an enticing avenue to pursue fraudsters. In fact, research by Kaspersky Labs shows that the average amount of money stolen in individual ransomware attacks increased from $472 in 2015 to $482 last year. Additionally, according to a Trend Micro report, 38% of ransomware victims decided to pay the ransom with the US Department of Justice - rating this form of attack as the biggest cyberthreat for 2017. South Africa's ranking Ransomware, also referred to as cryptomalware, generally enters company networks through email attachments. And while being a global phenomenon, the Kaspersky research shows that South Africa moved up the list of 117 most attacked countries to 31st in November. So how do you protect yourself against attacks? One of the key elements is to provide employees with security awareness training. This is important to prevent them from clicking on phishing links sent in emails. Of course, if the worst has already happened, what is there to do? Andy Patel, a security expert at F-Secure, says you need to respond to such an incident in a level-headed manner. Isolating and remediating affected machines &#x201c;You&#x2019;re going to want to start by isolating and remediating affected machines before restoring data from backups and ensure that you have the right protection on your network to prevent it happening again. Make sure you don&#x2019;t restore the original infection vector during that process. And when your systems are back up and running, remember to kick off a root cause analysis. Learn from the experience and improve your processes and systems to avoid future infections,&#x201d; he says. However, this does mean that you need to backup your data to a safe location as quickly as possible (if you are not doing so already). This at least enables you to be up and running faster and restore business operations quickly. Of course, simply backing up to a removable hard drive is no longer good enough&#x2026; The importance of data means that you need to ensure you have robust backups in place, should the worst happen. As such, the 3-2-1 rule applies - which states that you need to implement three backups of your important data on two different media with one of them being kept offsite. This should be seen as an essential part of any business continuity or data recovery strategy. After all, can you really afford not to keep your sensitive information safe?