CaribbeanTales vice-president, Nicole Brooks.CineFAM is an initiative of CaribbeanTales to support bold original films by women of colour worldwide. &#x201c;Cinefam&#x201d; in the Haitian-Creole language means &#x201c;films by women&#x201d;. This Accelerator aims to build capacity and creative leadership among women of colour who are underrepresented in leadership roles. &#x201c;We are absolutely thrilled to embark on this new partnership with CaribbeanTales. The Accelerator Incubator Program will provide an exciting new platform to support the development of women-led audio-visual content in Africa, and promote more representational narratives. &#x201c;Through this partnership, we hope to build a bridge between the two organisations that will raise the voices of African women filmmakers,&#x201d; said Toni Monty, head of Durban Film Office and DFM, the co-production and finance market, which is a joint programme of the Durban Film Office (DFO) and the Durban International Film Festival (DIFF), South Africa. Opportunities &#x201c;CaribbeanTales was founded and run by women of colour from the Caribbean and African Diaspora so this initiative is close to our hearts. This partnership provides an unprecedented platform and opportunities for South African, African and African Diaspora women film producers,&#x201d; says CaribbeanTales CEO, Frances-Anne Solomon. &#x201c;Africa is a natural partner for us in the Caribbean and we couldn&#x2019;t be more pleased to be building a relationship with DFM to bring our Incubator Accelerator program to Africa!&#x201d; CineFAM - Africa, which will be led by CaribbeanTales vice-president Nicole Brooks, is a two-day program that will take place during the Durban FilmMart, July 14-17, 2017. For this first edition of CineFAM - Africa, South African women producers and African women producers living in South Africa are invited to submit their film projects of original serialised television content for consideration. A total of five projects will be selected, and entered into the program to be held at DFM exposing participants to CaribbeanTales&#x2019; accelerator unique process including a great overview and guide on how to create the basis of story, marketing, pitching and financing. The accelerator will culminate in a mini-pitch. The winner will qualify to participate in the renowned CaribbeanTales Incubator (CTI), in Toronto, Canada. CTI is a year-round development and production hub for Caribbean and Caribbean Diaspora Producers that aims to create strong, compelling and sustainable content for the global market. The CTI's goal will increase the pool of world class indigenous film and television content and build the region&#x2019;s audio-visual capacity. Submissions are now open. To submit a project visit www.caribbeantalesincubator.com. Submissions close on 16 June 2017.