Jury Presidents: Pum Lefebure and Keith Cartwright The international jury presidents are: G tz Ulmer, partner at Jung von Matt in Hamburg heading up Film & Radio panel; Keith Cartwright, executive creative director at California&#x2019;s BSSP heads up the Print, Outdoor & Out of Home panel; Plan.Net&#x2019;s Chief Creative Officer, Markus Maczey from Munich, heads up the Digital & Interactive panel; and Design Army&#x2019;s co-founder and chief creative officer, Pum Lefebure, comes from Washington DC to lead the Communication Design panel. Jury Presidents: Gotz Ulmer and Markus Maczey In all, more than 160 South African, regional and international judges have the formidable task of seeking out work that is bold, innovative, and that challenges convention. Says Loeries CEO Andrew Human: &#x201c;The DStv Seminar of Creativity is an unmissable event for anyone who wants to be inspired by such great minds. Once again our jury presidents include some of the best creative leaders across the globe. It&#x2019;s a honour to have them join us for Creative Week and I would urge everyone to hear their thoughts at our seminar.&#x201d; The DStv Seminar of Creativity is part of Loeries Creative Week Durban, taking place from Monday, 14 August, to Monday, 21 August 2017. The jury presidents are four of the eight speakers. Loeries extended deadline for entries is 31 May. For more information visit loeries.com. About Loeries Africa Middle East The Loeries, a non-profit company, is Africa and the Middle East&#x2019;s premiere initiative that recognises, rewards, inspires and fosters creative excellence in the brand communication industry. As the highest accolade for creativity and innovation across our region, the Loeries promotes and supports creativity by helping marketers, agencies and consumers appreciate the value of ideas and fresh thinking. Culminating in the biggest creative gathering in Africa and the Middle East, Loeries Creative Week Durban brings together the best innovative minds from our industry for a festival of networking, inspiring minds and recognising great work. Our region's creative economy is world class and has great potential to grow and to offer employment both to our talented youth. The growth occurring throughout Africa and the Middle East is very exciting, and a major focus of the Loeries is to increase the standard of brand communication in the region. Major Partners of the Loeries 2017 Tourism KwaZulu-Natal (TKZN), the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, KwaZulu-Natal Province (EDTEA), eThekwini Municipality &#x2013; Durban Tourism, DStv Media Sales, Gearhouse Group. Category Partners AB InBev, Accenture, Channel O, Facebook, Gagasi FM, Google, JCDecaux, SANBS, The Times, Unilever South Africa, Woolworths. Additional Partners and Official Suppliers AAA School of Advertising, Antalis South Africa, Aon South Africa, Association of Practitioners in Advertising, Backsberg, BEE Online, Circus Circus Beach Caf , DDB South Africa, First Source, Fresh RSVP Guest Logistics, Funk Productions, Gallo Images, Graphica, Grid Worldwide, HelloCrowd, Hetzner, Multiprint Litho, Newsclip, Paygate, Paul Shiakallis Photography, Rocketseed, Scan Display, Shift Social Development, South African Airways, Total Exposure, Tsogo Sun, Vega School, VQI. Official Media Partners Between 10and5, Bizcommunity.com, Book of Swag, Campaign Middle East, CliffCentral.com, Coloribus Advertising Archive, Film & Event Media, Goliath and Goliath, iDidTht.com, Leading Architecture and Design, Marketing Edge Nigeria, Marketing Africa, Media Update, The Redzone, YouTube.